

===============================================================================
Silent Hill Ørigins

Platform: Playstation Portable, Playstation 2
Developer: Konami, Climax (2007)
Genre: Survival/Psychological Horror
Rating: M (Blood and Gore, Language, Suggestive Themes, Violence)

Author: Georgi Samaras
E-mail: SophiaLee04@yahoo.com
Version: 1.51
Last Updated: February 20, 2011


===============================================================================
Contents

   Introduction ...................................................... [int]
   Controls .......................................................... [con]
   Surviving in Silent Hill .......................................... [sur]
   Monsters .......................................................... [mon]
   Walkthrough
      The Fire ....................................................... [fir]
      Alchemilla Hospital ............................................ [alh]
      Silent Hill Streets: To the Sanitarium.......................... [ss1]
      Cedar Grove Sanitarium ......................................... [cgs]
      Silent Hill Streets: To the Theatre ............................ [ss2]
      Artaud Theatre ................................................. [ath]
      Silent Hill Streets: To the Motel .............................. [ss3]
      Riverside Motel ................................................ [rsm]
      Nowhere ........................................................ [now]
   Extras
      Endings ........................................................ [end]
      Accolades ...................................................... [acc]
      Extra Options .................................................. [exo]
   Sprinter Run ...................................................... [spr]
   Trivia ............................................................ [tri]
   Miscellaneous ..................................................... [mis]


To make getting around the guide easier, I've implemented a keyword search
feature.  Just copy and paste the three-letter keyword (complete with the
brackets) of the section you want into your browser's Find feature (Ctrl+F)
and it should take you where you want to go.


===============================================================================
Introduction                                                              [int]

Silent Hill Ørigins is the series' first foray into the world of handheld
gaming, but it still upholds the tradition of giving gamers a terrifying
experience.  Definitely heed the title screen's advice of playing in the dark
with your headphones plugged in!  This game is a prequel to the original Silent
Hill, so it should be a good place for beginning fans of the series to start
while giving veterans a taste of something new.  The story follows Travis
Grady, a trucker taking a shortcut through Silent Hill to Brahms that, through
a series of bizarre incidents and intense psychology lessons, finds the
supposed source of the evil that has come to engulf the town of Silent Hill.

This guide was written as I went through my second playthrough, and I'm one of
those Silent Hill-ers that checks every single door and room every single time.
In other words, this walkthrough outlines the exploration process, which you
should get into the habit of since that's at the core of every Silent Hill
game.  I've tried not to spoil anything, but please be aware that certain boss
monster names may ruin a bit of the fun if you read ahead.  Also, I am a huge
fan of Silent Hill analysis, but I realize that a walkthrough is no place for
theory, so I've tried to cut back.  If something slips through, I apologize.
However, I've compiled a pretty fair-sized trivia section (with help from many
contributors) to help you get the most out of a replay game and to maybe give
your analytical thinking a nudge.

This game has since been ported to the PS2, which is great since it gives
Silent Hill fans without a PSP a chance to play it.  I have access to both
versions and can safely say that this walkthrough will work for both of them,
though there are some slight differences.  Puzzle solutions, boss strategy, and
the controls (in other words, the major bits) are the same.


===============================================================================
Controls                                                                  [con]

analog stick: controls movement in a 2-D control scheme, meaning that Travis
              will move forward in whichever direction you tilt the stick

select: open inventory

start: pause

triangle: view the map

X: interact with the environment (pick up things or examine), perform a
   finishing blow on an enemy, attack (when right trigger is held), charge
   attack (hold down X with right trigger held)

square: run

circle: toggle flashlight switch, skip cutscenes (when paused)

left trigger: center camera behind Travis (camera cannot be turned), cycle
              through menus in inventory, toggle between targets when right
              trigger is pressed

right trigger: enter combat stance, cycle through menus in inventory

left and right directional buttons: cycle through items in inventory

up directional button: instant access to weapon inventory (once to view melee
                       weapons, twice to view firearms)

down directional button: auto-equip item in front of Travis, reload firearm
                         (when right trigger is held)


===============================================================================
Surviving in Silent Hill                                                  [sur]

There are plenty of things you need to know to make your way through the cursed
town of Silent Hill.  This section will briefly go over the most important, so
it's not that comprehensive.  First-timers will probably find this section
lacking, but what fun would a Silent Hill game be without a little uncertainty,
experimentation, and exploration?

   ==================
   Health and Stamina
   ==================
   Travis' health is marked by a small screen in the lower left of your
   inventory.  When it is green, he's in excellent health.  When he takes
   damage, static appears on the screen.  When he's about to die, the static
   intensifies and the screen turns red.  The edge of the in-game screen pulses
   red as well, and the sound of a beating heart can be heard.  Heal with
   health drinks to restore a small portion of health, first aid kits to
   restore about half your health, or ampoules for complete restoration.

   Stamina cannot be seen by a meter of any kind.  As Travis runs, fights, and
   grapples, his stamina depletes.  Whenever it is gone, he moves slower and
   must catch his breath.  This makes him a sitting duck.  Energy drinks bring
   his stamina back up to max and are important when planning a mad dash
   through monster-infested streets.

   =======
   The Map
   =======
   Get friendly with the triangle button and make a habit of looking for a map
   every time you enter a new area.  This walkthrough is going to be using the
   map a lot and assumes that you will too.  Important items and things of
   interest like save points and mirrors are marked on the map when
   encountered.  Travis will also mark doors that are jammed, locked, and open
   with squiggly lines, solid red lines, and arrows, respectively.  Maps even
   have legends that will help you get around easier.  For example, the town
   map of Silent Hill denotes buildings you can enter with a shade of pink
   while all other buildings are blue; alleys are gray and streets are white.

   Travis apparently has multiple copies of his maps because, as you traverse
   the Otherworld, you will see that its map is dirtier looking and can be
   viewed side-by-side with the real world map by hitting the left or right
   directional arrows.  This makes it a lot easier to know which pathways are
   accessible in which world.

   ==================================
   Using the Flashlight and the Radio
   ==================================
   Travis starts the game with a flashlight and a pocket radio.   Both are
   instrumental in your survival.  Well, maybe not both.  While the flashlight
   is a staple in the series, it's actually best that you not use it that
   often.  Sure, it lets you see in the dark, but it also lets monsters see you
   easier.  With the flashlight off, you can stand side-by-side with a monster,
   and it will not be able to find you!  In past Silent Hill games, characters
   were helpless without the flashlight: they wouldn't be able to see items or
   even use keys.  This is not so with Travis.  In the dark, he will turn his
   head to look at monsters, memos, items, and even certain doors so watch him
   closely.  (However, he has a knack for staring through things and at items
   that aren't even of interest.)  He can also read his map without a light.

   The radio emits static whenever a monster is nearby.  The monsters cannot
   hear the radio, so it's safe to keep it on and foolish to turn it off.  The
   screen will also turn grainy whenever a monster is close but only if you
   have the extra noise filter option on.

   ==================
   Weapons and Combat
   ==================
   This game makes sure you are never without a weapon.  Melee weapons can be
   found absolutely everywhere and can range from a piece of jagged wood to a
   katana.  Travis can even use his fists if need be.  Because there are so
   many melee weapons, listing and analyzing them would be quite an exercise
   for this poor writer.  They do all share one thing in common: durability.
   In the inventory screen, the "+" marker next to a weapon is its durability.
   Green is good, orange is okay, and red means it's about to break.  Each one
   also has a charge attack that is done by holding X in combat stance.  The
   screen will shake and Travis will unleash his attack when X is released.
   Some weapons are one-time uses.  These are marked with a yellow symbol and
   deal more damage than ordinary weapons.  However, they are slow and can be
   knocked out of your hands by enemy attacks, which breaks them.  These
   weapons' charge attacks turn them into powerful projectiles.

   There are quite a fair number of firearms to be had in this game, and it
   should go without saying that you should conserve every box of ammo you
   find.  Firearms make short work of boss monsters and can be extremely useful
   in tight quarters.  It might also be wise to carry one around on the streets
   of Silent Hill, since enemies will chase you down once they see you and
   won't stop until you deliver a kick to their carcass.

   Silent Hill Ørigins also introduces the grappling system: whenever an enemy
   gets too close to Travis, a button-pressing scene will occur in which he
   tries to defend himself.  Fail the sequence and Travis takes damage or could
   even be instantly killed; succeed and he hurls the monster away.  Different
   enemies grapple differently; some don't grapple at all.  In any case,
   whenever you finish an enemy, it is important that you deliver a finishing
   blow by releasing the right trigger and hitting X over the squirming
   monster.  If you don't do this, it will get right back up and continue
   attacking.  Note that even after delivering a finishing blow, monsters can
   respawn, sometimes while you're still in the vicinity.  This only applies to
   when you are on the streets of Silent Hill.

   =======
   Mirrors
   =======
   An entirely new concept in Silent Hill Ørigins is using mirrors to switch
   between the real world and the Otherworld.  To clarify, the "real world"
   is the brighter one covered in mist.  The Otherworld is much darker and
   usually has a bloody red tint to it.  Mirrors can be used an unlimited
   number of times because certain areas can only be reached in the Otherworld,
   and plenty of backtracking is to be had.  Real world items appear in the
   Otherworld in the exact same places you saw them in the real world because
   the Otherworld is a mirror image of the real one, just a little more
   nightmarish and with more blood and rust.


===============================================================================
Monsters                                                                  [mon]

Silent Hill is a town where the mind takes over control.  Personal demons turn
to flesh and bone, and it is your job to repress them, even if it is with a
firearm.  Below is a list of all the monsters encountered on the streets of
Silent Hill.  Boss monsters are not covered here but are attended to when they
are encountered in the game.

All monsters are sensitive to light and, to a lesser extent, sound.  Outside
where it is bright, they'll be able to see you better than when in a building.
When inside, keep your flashlight off at all times to avoid catching their
attention.  Once they spot you, they will chase you relentlessly, so it is
worth it to keep out of their sight.  If they should spot you, remember that
most of the time it is easier just to run.

   =====
   Nurse
   =====
   Nurses are standard in Silent Hill and only appear in Alchemilla Hospital
   and Cedar Grove Sanitarium for obvious reasons.  They carry syringes with
   them that they use as weapons.  If they get too close to you, they will try
   to bury that weapon right in your neck.  Mash X to deny them that chance and
   counterattack.  Melee weapons or your fists should be enough to finish them.
   Don't bother wasting ammo on them since they are generally weak.

   ===============
   Straight-jacket
   ===============
   Straight-jackets stalk Travis all over the game and are a symbol of
   personal confinement: they are restrained by their own skin.  Their only
   method of attack is to spit an acidic substance at you.  If you get too
   close, they will attempt to choke the life out of you with a two-button
   grapple move.  Melee weapons are enough to take care of these monsters.
   Wait for them to attack or fend them off in a grapple to throw them off,
   then smack them unconscious.

   =======
   Carrion
   =======
   Being a trucker, Travis has undoubtedly run over plenty of animals in his
   day.  He must have a conscience though, since these monsters haunt him.
   They look like a hoofed animal whose neck and front legs are broken.  It is
   surprisingly capable of a chase, however.  Once it sees Travis, it will turn
   on a dime and follow him.  They attack by ramming, which can be done from a
   great distance.  For this reason, you should take these monsters out with a
   firearm or with a one-hit melee weapon's charge attack.  In later portions
   of the game, these beasts will grow to immense size.  They don't lunge but
   instead lift up their upper body and slam it down.  This hurts and stuns
   Travis even if he is remotely close.  Fighting these larger Carrions is not
   advised but is arguably easier than dealing with the smaller ones.

   =======
   Remnant
   =======
   These monsters are not listed on Konami's official site and are never seen
   outside of Cedar Grove Sanitarium.  They are basically haunted medical halos
   that wander the halls of the building.  Turn your flashlight on around them
   to see their full shadow.  Their only attack is a long-range lunge, which
   they execute while wailing at you in a high-pitched, almost feminine tone.
   They are some of the more resilient monsters.  They don't have much of a
   body, so firearms seem to miss or do little damage.  Like the Carrions,
   getting close for a melee attack is hard unless you sneak up to them and
   attack hard and fast.

   =====
   Ariel
   =====
   A twisted version of a character from William Shakespeare's The Tempest,
   Ariels are basically walking puppets.  They can either hang from the ceiling
   or walk on their hands on the ground.  Above your head, they will try to
   grab you.  Mash the X button to escape.  On the ground, they will simply
   bash you with their feet.  Melee weapons are good for knocking them to the
   ground; while they get up, just keep swinging or stabbing away to put them
   down for good.

   =======
   Caliban
   =======
   Another Shakespeare monstrosity, Caliban is a lumbering beast that will
   roam the streets and some of the corridors of the Riverside Motel.  He will
   put all his weight on his front legs, lifting his back legs high to slam
   them down on Travis.  This also creates a small shockwave that will stun
   him if he's close.  When Caliban roars and trembles, he is going to do a
   forward lunge.  Due to his size, it takes him a while to recuperate after an
   attack.  You can take him out with close-range attacks, but a long-range
   firearm like a rifle will do.  However, it's really not worth fighting this
   monster at all.  Run past him every time.

   =======
   Twoback
   =======
   One of the more disturbing monsters in the game, the Twoback looks exactly
   like what you think it does: two body masses merged as one.  The name comes
   from the saying that when people have sex, they are making the beast with
   two backs.  What can one say, except that truckers get lonely on the road?
   However, as the opening conversation on the CB tells you, Travis does not
   indulge, resulting in anxiety that manifests itself as this hideous beast.
   It stalks the Riverside Motel (which makes sense when you think about it)
   and is a Straight-jacket on steroids: it will spit acid at you and can
   tackle you as well.  If it pins you, a disturbing one-button grapple
   sequence commences.  Take these things out from a distance with a firearm or
   blast them with the shotgun when you encounter them in close quarters, which
   will happen quite a bit.


===============================================================================
Walkthrough

There are no difficulty settings in Silent Hill Ørigins.  The puzzles and
combat are not overly easy and not too hard, so it should be a happy medium.
Those looking for a real challenge will find it in achieving accolades, which
are discussed later on.

This game uses an item system like Silent Hill 3; that is, it may give you
healing items in certain areas if you are lacking.  I've gotten confirmation
from Stevo99801 that the game will even upgrade healing items (e.g. - a health
drink will turn into an ampoule) if you really need it.  Because of this, it's
difficult to get an accurate items listing.  If I reference things you can't
see, it's likely that the game figured that you didn't need them.  Likewise, if
you see things I missed, I must have either been doing well while playing or a
bad job exploring.

Note to PS2 version players: you guys got the short end of the stick when it
comes to visibility.  This walkthrough was written with the PSP, which lets you
actually see your surroundings.  Therefore, if something is referenced here
that you can't find, keep mashing X and you will eventually find it.  I promise
I didn't imagine any items I picked up or list here!

========================================
The Fire                           [fir]
========================================

After the intro, Travis will find himself on the road, looking for the girl he
avoided with his truck.  The opening credits will continue to roll while Mary
Elizabeth McGlynn sings you through.  You'll be in control the entire time;
just keep going down the road.  Now would also be a good time to check your
inventory.  Travis comes fully prepared with a radio and a flashlight, as well
as a keepsake from his past which will undoubtedly come in handy later.  Past
the city limits sign, Travis will see a house on fire and rush in to save the
girl screaming inside.

The path inside the house is linear, and the fire deals no damage to Travis
whatsoever, only slows him down.  Head upstairs first and then through the door
right ahead of you at the top.  Make your way around the next room to a freaky
cultish set-up on the floor.  With your charge in hand, make your way back the
way you came, and Travis will fall through the floor.  Here, whenever the path
is blocked by flame, it will magically disappear, so simply continue your
linear trek back to the front door.  Outside, Travis faints among the sounds of
sirens, one of which should sound familiar to Silent Hill veterans.


========================================
Alchemilla Hospital                [alh]
========================================

In the foggy city, Travis will automatically pick up a town map and mark his
destination.  Go ahead and make your way straight there; you'll be back outside
to explore more soon enough.  However, if you want two HEALTH DRINKS, check the
area with the benches west of the post office and the alley by the blocked
stairs north of the hospital.

In the hospital, take the PUBLIC NOTICE memo and the HOSPITAL MAP.  By the
information desk is your first save point, the red triangle on the wall.  Every
side room in this hall and the next are locked.  In the next hall, a scene
occurs by the elevator.  Travis won't leave without answers, so chase the
doctor to the second floor.

In the next room, you'll get your first blast of white noise.  A monster called
a Nurse will then attack you.  You can either pick up the nearby HAMMER or
pound it with your fists.  In any case, the Nurse will most likely grapple with
you.  If this happens, mash the X button repeatedly to avoid getting a syringe
in your chest.  Generally, Nurses are easy to take down with a few whacks of a
melee weapon.  The blows stop them in their tracks and you can continue to
whale on them while they recoil.  If you must fight them, it's an easy win.
However, there's always the chance that they'll lunge with their weapons first.
You don't get as many healing items as you do weapons, so choose your fights
wisely.  Enter Room 205 when it's dead.  Grab the DOCTOR'S DIAGNOSIS memo and
examine the mirror.  Attempt to leave and then touch the mirror.

Welcome to the "Otherworld".  Grab the SCALPEL from the gurney, the PLASTIC
LUNGS behind you, and the HEALTH DRINK from the cabinet.  Turn your flashlight
off and then go out to the hall.  A Nurse is walking around, but you should be
safe if your light is off and you walk instead of run.  Through the door near
the Nurse's Center, enter Room 202 to get the HURRIED NOTE and the GOLDEN EGG.
A Nurse will be out in the hall now but is nowhere near you.  In Room 204,
you'll find a DRIP STAND next to a locked box with the BLOODY NOTE on it.  This
will be marked on your map; remember it since we'll be coming back to it.  Out
in the hall, you can grab a PORTABLE TV opposite the door.  Head downstairs.

There's a HAMMER in the stairwell right next to the second floor door and a
HEALTH DRINK on the top of the stairs.  On the first floor is a Nurse, an
ALCOHOL BOTTLE melee weapon, and two locked doors.  One of the locked doors
leads to the ladies' restroom.  If you examine the golden egg in your
inventory, you'll see it fits the depression here, not to mention it's the only
thing we have that even comes close to a "key".  The egg is warm to the touch
and larger than a hen's: it's a phoenix egg.  Phoenix birds rise from ashes;
we have a match.

Inside, grab the STUDENT'S MNEMONIC by the sink, and then go to the stalls.
One of the toilets has a loose back to it.  Open the cistern for the PLASTIC
LIVER.  Why Travis would think these are important enough to carry is beyond
me.  Touch the mirror to get transported back to the "real world".  Get the
ENERGY DRINK behind you and check out the stalls.  Make note of the "Amy, 31"
written on the door and get the STAFF LOUNGE KEY in the next stall over.

The staff lounge is through the door to your right and straight ahead.  There's
an ENERGY DRINK on the couch, a TOASTER on the counter underneath the EXAM ROOM
KEY, a STAFF NOTICE to your left, and the cryptic "Lucy, 23" written on the
wall by the door.  Go back to the entrance hall to open the exam room.  There's
an ALCOHOL BOTTLE to your right.  Ignore the operating dummy for now and grab
the PLASTIC STOMACH and PLASTIC INTESTINE from the two sinks.  Turn on the
light of the X-ray box to see "Sarah, 19" written.  The STAFF MEMO and a
TYPEWRITER are on the nearby desk.

Now, as to that anatomy doll, you might have guessed that all these plastic
organs are supposed to fit in there.  You're right, but what good is an anatomy
doll that's missing pieces?  If you put all your current pieces in, you'd
notice a hole where the heart should go.  Remember the locked box on the second
floor?  We need to open that for our heart.  Use the mirror in the ladies' room
to backtrack through the Otherworld to Room 204.

     ====================
     The Heart Box Puzzle
     ====================
     Read the Bloody Note to get the jist here.  We need the "three beauties"
     for the key.  Beauties means ladies in this sense, so our three beauties
     are Amy, Lucy, and Sarah (the names scattered around the hospital).  The
     note also says "age before beauty".  Each name came with a number.  We can
     presume that those are the ladies' ages since we've no other clues.

     Amy, being 31, is the oldest.  After her is Lucy at 23 and then Sarah at
     19.  All you have to do to unlock the box is input those numbers from
     greatest to least.  Therefore, the code is 312319.  Your prize is the
     PLASTIC HEART.

A Nurse will be right outside the door.  Prepare to grapple, then either fight
or run.  Backtrack to the ladies' room, watching for at least one more Nurse.
Go back to the exam room to confront our dummy again.

     =======================
     The Anatomy Doll Puzzle
     =======================
     This doll is pretty accurate, so placing the organs in the dummy in any
     order will not work.  To figure the order, you need to read the Student's
     Mnemonic: "INside, STevie, LIttle HEnry LUrks."  The letters highlighted
     in red (or capitalized in this walkthrough's case) are the clues for the
     order.

        IN = intestine
        ST = stomach
        LI = liver
        HE = heart
        LU = lungs

     Put the intestine at the leftmost (lower) portion of the doll.  The
     stomach (the pinkish one) goes along the bottom part of the intestine
     (from our point of view).  The liver (the darker piece) goes above the
     stomach.  The heart goes in the middle of the right portion of the doll,
     and the lungs go on top of that.  Eerily enough, the doll's GLASS EYES
     open, ready for plucking.

These eyes act as another twisted key of sorts.  The only other locked door is
on the first floor of the Otherworld hospital.  Backtrack through the ladies'
room mirror and get ready to grapple as you go through the door.  Check the
other locked door in this passage to see a message about needing eyes to gaze
into the future, the perfect place to use our new pair.

Two Nurses stalk this new hall.  Take out the closer one if you can without
alerting the other down the way.  Try to use one of your one-hit weapons by
charging it and tossing it.  A PORTABLE TV, HEALTH DRINK, and ENERGY DRINK are
out in the twisted "lobby" that they were guarding.  In the exam room, you'll
find another, more realistic version of the anatomy dummy we played with
earlier.  (Her eyes are missing.  Could that be our fault?)  Behind her is a
SCALPEL.  Enter the doctor's office only after equipping a melee weapon of your
choice.

     ===============
     Straight-jacket
     ===============
     The first thing this monster is going to do is rush you.  You're fighting
     in a pretty small space so don't bother running to get distance between
     you two, as this thing is pretty fast.  Its only real attack is to spit
     acid at you.  You should drop everything and run if you see it start to
     spit up.  It can also harm you if it engages you in a grapple.  This is
     different than the one with the Nurses.  The Straight-jacket will jump up
     on you and hang on for dear life.  Don't button mash.  Instead, wait for a
     face button to appear on the screen.  Hit it and then wait for another.
     Missing either one means you take damage.

     To fight this monster, stay in its face.  If you have a durable melee
     weapon equipped, go to town.  Odds are high that it will break and you'll
     be left with your fists.  This is fine.  As long as you keep punching, the
     monster won't get an attack in edgewise.  You can also equip another
     weapon as long as you do it through your inventory.  If you opt for a one-
     hit weapon like the alcohol bottle or the TV, it'll deal greater damage
     but be harder to use.  Since this monster is so fast and it takes a while
     to lug a TV up to attack, you will take more damage than deal.  Fighting
     with your fists may make the fight longer, but as long as you keep
     punching, you can win this without a scratch.

Grab the FUTURE PIECE after the fight and prepare to black out.  In the scene
afterwards, we meet Lisa Garland and learn that the girl we tried to save,
Alessa Gillespie, died in the fire.  Everything in the hospital is locked up;
that's our cue to leave.  The exit is through the door past the ladies' room
and to Travis' right.

Outside, if you check your map, Travis will have marked Cedar Grove Sanitarium
as the next destination.  It seems he still wants answers, and Lisa might have
them.


========================================
To the Sanitarium                  [ss1]
========================================

You'll be on the opposite side of the hospital outside.  Check the upper right
corner of this area (according to your map) to find a HEALTH DRINK.  On the
street, you'll hear white noise and a Straight-jacket will attack.  It's worth
it to fight this one since it's already seen you, but keep in mind that
fighting every single monster you meet is not wise unless you want breathing
room to explore.  It's tough to sneak around them when it's bright out, and
they will relentlessly chase you until you either kill them or enter a
building.  You'd think that this would be a great reason to fend them off, but
the monsters in this game respawn like crazy.  You may kill off one beast only
to explore, come back, and find that the same one you just killed is coming
back for more.  Running really is the best option when it comes to fights in
the street.  When Travis tires and you've got monsters on your heels, use an
energy drink to bring his stamina back up to full so he can continue running
away.

There's a piece of JAGGED WOOD at the northern end of Canyon Street.  Going
south, you should find an ENERGY DRINK, HEALTH DRINK, and BATON next to the cop
car.  There's a TOASTER in a trash can behind town hall.  Both sides of Midway
Avenue are caved in, but if you go to the east and up past the locked lumber
yard, you'll find a HEALTH DRINK.  South on Borden Street, you'll find an
ENERGY DRINK in front of a house on your left and another even further south,
on the lower left corner of Cielo and Borden.  The upper left corner of Cielo
and Borden hides a HAMMER behind a fence.

East on Cielo Avenue, you'll find an ENERGY DRINK on the steps of city hall and
a piece of JAGGED WOOD on the left side of the building.  You'll find a MEAT
HOOK by a dumpster south and to the right of here.  The little grassy spot with
the trees south of city hall houses more JAGGED WOOD.

From Cielo, go to Low Street.  You need to go through the butcher shop to reach
Toluca Avenue.  Inside is a save point and a HEALTH DRINK as well as a MEAT
HOOK sticking out of a slab on the wall.  Going through the back door reveals a
gruesome sight.  Grab the FIRST AID KIT on the wall and the nearby ENERGY
DRINK.  There's also a MEAT CLEAVER for you to take.

Back outside in the ambience, go out on the main street and make a left to nab
an ENERGY DRINK and TARGET PISTOL AMMO.  Further down the street (still on the
left side), you'll find a PARKING TICKET on the car.  At the intersection of
Toluca and Borden Street, you'll see a new enemy.  The Carrion is a remembrance
of all the poor animals Travis has made road kill of with his truck.  Even
though its front legs and neck appear to be broken, it will still chase you
with great speed and can turn on a dime.  Its one attack is to ram you; it can
do this from great distance and for good damage.  Try to catch them when
they're unaware, circle them and attack, or just avoid them altogether.  One-
use melee weapons should take them down; use their charge attack if possible to
avoid fighting close range.

Keep going down the left hand side of Toluca Avenue for a red CRATE and
(further down) more JAGGED WOOD.  On the left hand side of Acadia Road, you'll
find a WRENCH and a HEALTH DRINK on the hood of the car in the garage.  Now
head for the sanitarium.  You should just run past all the Straight-jackets and
Carrions to make it to the front door.  If you want TARGET PISTOL AMMO, there's
some hidden as the base of the fourth tree to Travis' left.  There's also an
ALCOHOL BOTTLE to the left of the entrance if you feel so inclined.


========================================
Cedar Grove Sanitarium             [cgs]
========================================

Inside, get ready for quite an excursion.  In the central foyer, look for a
BATON on one of the couches to your right and head north to get the "MAGPIE"
NOTE under the doctor's office door.  Turn around and head right to the door
marked "west solarium".  By the wheelchair in the middle of the room is the
TARGET PISTOL and two boxes of TARGET PISTOL AMMO.  You really should save all
the ammo you can for this.  You shouldn't have to lift a finger to fight in
this place until much later.  And you will need that ammo later.  On the nearby
desk is a FILING CABINET and an ENERGY DRINK on another.

Exit and go straight across the foyer to the east solarium.  Inside is the
SANITARIUM MAP.  Further back in this room is an ENERGY DRINK and the STATUS
REPORT 3/12/1960.  Through the other door, you'll meet Alessa's mother.  In the
first storage room you see further down the hall, you'll net a TIRE IRON,
TARGET PISTOL AMMO x2, a SCREWDRIVER, and an ENERGY DRINK.  In the hall,
there's a DRIP STAND by the laundry room.  Enter the stairwell for a save
point.

Head up to the second floor.  Here, you'll encounter what appears to be a
haunted medical halo, actually a monster called a Remnant.  These enemies are
tougher than most and should be avoided completely.  Bullets don't seem to do
much damage; if you want to fight, try a melee weapon, though their attacks
have an incredible range and are just plain freaky.  Enter the storage room to
fight a Nurse for SHOTGUN AMMO x2, a FIRST AID KIT, and two ALCOHOL BOTTLES.
The door across from storage is jammed, but there's a WRENCH and ENERGY DRINK
here.

Past the staff lounge in the main foyer, you'll find Nurses.  Your goal is the
TB ward, as per the Magpie note.  There's an iron lung with a key inside and an
ENERGY DRINK on the chair on the opposite side of the room.  Take the IRON LUNG
WARNING and check the controls.

     ================
     Iron Lung Puzzle
     ================
     The goal here is to overload the machine so it malfunctions and opens.  In
     messing with the button controls on the iron lung, you should notice that
     each button affects not only the meter above it but also any meters next
     to it.  For example, the second switch from the left activates meters one
     and three as well as two.  You need to get all the needles in the red
     without going over.  To do this, (assuming the buttons are labeled 1-5
     from left to right) hit button one twice, button three twice, and button
     five twice.  You should find the BASEMENT KEY at the head of the machine.

Backtrack to the stairwell; you'll find a WRENCH and TARGET PISTOL AMMO by the
chair outside the basement door.  Use your new key.  There's a DRIP STAND and
TARGET PISTOL AMMO in the storage room in the next hall over.  Don't bother
going any farther than this.  There's JAGGED WOOD by the boiler room, but three
Remnants patrol the hall.  If you really need TARGET PISTOL AMMO, you'll find a
box at the western end of the hall.

Sneak past the Carrion in the first hall you were in to get familiar with the
east pipe room.  Make note of the drain.  Now go down the long diagonal hall
marked "stairs".  There's a MEAT HOOK on the right hand side of the wall if you
want it.  In the new stairwell, a RAZOR sits on the floor.  Up on the second
floor, two Nurses patrol.  Go to the hydrotherapy room, our second Magpie stop.
Activate the drainage control by the working tub to drain the water and the
key.  Don't even think about going to the pipe room downstairs to get it; it
won't be there.  Instead, go to the treatment room nearby to find a mirror you
can use.

The doll here guards TARGET PISTOL AMMO.  Remnants guard the hall.  There's an
ALCOHOL BOTTLE on one of the desks out here.  In the stairwell, there's TARGET
PISTOL AMMO to your right.  On the first floor is a save point.  Check out the
weird goings-on at female seclusion and check both doors of the nearby dorm for
some audio.  There's TARGET PISTOL AMMO in dorm 3.  Straight-jackets are now
out in the hall; sneak past them to the ladies' restroom.  The shower room
holds a KITCHEN KNIFE.  Examine the mirror to switch worlds.  Check the only
toilet stall open and choose to flush it.  That ringing noise Travis heard was
that key.  Resist the urge to go down to the basement because you still won't
be able to reach it; it'll have fallen through the grate.  Check the shower
room before you leave...

Sneak past the Remnants to dorm 5.  In here is a BATON, the DUTY LOG, FEMALE
SECLUSION memo, TARGET PISTOL AMMO, a TABLE LAMP, and the PATIENT BELONGINGS
KEY.  A TYPEWRITER and a TIRE IRON wait opposite the door in the hall.  Unlock
the stairs for future use but make your way out of the female wing and into the
main foyer on this floor.  We need to go to the patient belongings room, so
sneak past all the Nurses and Remnants.  In the property room, grab the SHOTGUN
AMMO x2, STATUS REPORT 2/7/1961, and the TYPEWRITER to Travis' right.  Back in
the room is a mirror.  You know what to do.

Grab the SHOTGUN barring your exit, as well as the SHOTGUN AMMO on the floor.
Two Carrions guard this foyer.  In the dayroom, you'll find SHOTGUN AMMO, a
FIRST AID KIT, and a POKER in a chair.  Head for the eastern hall.  Dodge the
Remnant in the east solarium for a box of SHOTGUN AMMO and a FILING CABINET.
There's a HEALTH DRINK, SHOTGUN AMMO, and the POLICE REPORT in the laundry
room.  Go to the stairwell; it's finally time to get that key we flushed.
Outside the basement door is TARGET PISTOL AMMO towards the back.

Slink past the two Remnants and go to the pipe room.  You should find the
INTERVIEW ARCHIVES KEY where the real world drain was.  Go back and slink some
more to the diagonal hall.  Here, you'll find a MEAT HOOK, a HEALTH DRINK and a
promise of goodies on the other side.  Return to the Remnant's hall and enter
storage for a mirror, a HAMMER, and an AMPOULE.  Make use of the mirror.

The archives room is on the second floor.  Simply use the nearby basement
stairs to jog up there and creep around the monsters to use your key.  Another
audio flashback kicks in upon entering.  Grab the SHOTGUN AMMO and PORTABLE TV
before stepping through the mirror.  On the other side, there's a KATANA
waiting by a shelf.  Sneak past the Straight-jackets outside to enter the
western corridor.  Enter the stairs since the hallway is ruined.

In the basement, a Carrion stands watch.  Go up the diagonal hall to the other
set of basement stairs.  There's a HAMMER between the first and second floors.
Your destination is the first floor male wing.

In male seclusion, there are five cells, a BATON, and the CLIPBOARD.  Pay
attention to each cell.  Number 1 has a RAZOR and a huge mess.  Number 2 is
scorched shut.  Number 3 has a POKER sticking out of a well-dressed mannequin.
Number 4 is barred shut, and number 5 is full of uneaten food and a scale.  Go
to the infirmary now, watching out for Nurses.  There's a SCALPEL and a save
point, as well as a freaky doll set.

     ====================
     The Doll/Pill Puzzle
     ====================
     There are five dolls lined up here to correspond with the five patients in
     seclusion.  The clipboard you got tells you who gets what medication.
     Here's a reminder:

        cell 1: red pills
        cell 2: blue pills
        cell 3: yellow pills
        cell 4: green pills
        cell 5: blue pills

     Who is in which room?  Room 1 was the one with the razor and the bloody
     mess.  Kitchen knives could make that kind of mess, but the doll with the
     razor blade is the likelier bet since it's a perfect match with the razors
     in the room.  The second doll from the right gets the red pill.

     Room 2 was set on fire.  The charred doll seems a likely tenant, so he
     gets a blue pill.

     Room 3 had dresses and perfumes in it; the rightmost doll is wearing a
     dress, so he gets the yellow pill.

     Room 4 was barred shut like a prison cell.  Considering what dolls are
     left, I'd say the homicidal-looking one with the kitchen knives is a good
     guess for number 4.  He gets a green pill.

     Room 5 had the uneaten food and the scale.  The middle doll is emaciated,
     most likely from an eating disorder like anorexia; he gets the other blue
     pill.

     To recap (if the dolls are ordered 1-5 from left to right):

        doll 1: green pill
        doll 2: blue pill
        doll 3: blue pill
        doll 4: red pill
        doll 5: yellow pill

     They'll give up DR. HARRIS' KEY.

Go back to the stairwell and down to basement storage.  Through the mirror,
you'll find the AMBER INCIDENT REPORT and a WRENCH in the stairwell.  Go up to
the first floor.  Unlock the door to the foyer and head for the doctor's
office.  Inside is a DRIP STAND, the JOCASTA ARTIFACT, and some shocking
PATIENT NOTES.  Be sure to pick up the CHILD'S DRAWING on the floor outside
too.  From here, make your way east on this floor to female seclusion.

Go to the Otherworld through the women's restroom.  If you want to make a short
detour for supplies, go down the stairs near female seclusion to the basement.
Down the diagonal hallway is SHOTGUN AMMO and TARGET PISTOL AMMO x2.  Back at
female seclusion, use the Jocasta artifact to open the door.  After Lisa runs
off, check the room for a BATON, a save point, and a host of drawings that get
progressively more alarming around cell 5.  Equip a firearm before heading in.

     =========================
     The Memory of Helen Grady
     =========================
     This monster should be fought from a distance.  Spikes line the cage-like
     apparatus surrounding it, and these can be projected to great lengths to
     pull you in and stab you repeatedly.  The spikes usually only come out
     after she comes down from the ceiling.  She can also spit a cloud of
     poison gas, but she stays stationary while spewing.  Both of these attacks
     are well avoided by staying away.

     She'll somewhat slowly pull herself along by her chains on the ceiling,
     trying to get close enough to strike.  Stick to one corner of the room and
     pull off 3-4 shots.  Then, run around to the opposite corner and fire some
     more.  And that's basically it.  Stick to the outer wall of the cell.  The
     poison gas shouldn't reach you here, and it gives you enough time to
     squeeze off some shots before the monster catches up.  She's slow, but not
     slow enough for you to write her off as an easy kill.

     The target pistol should be your weapon of choice, but the shotgun also
     works if you let the monster get a little close.  Count your shots as you
     fire (6 for the pistol, 2 for the shotgun) and reload in the menu so
     you're not a sitting duck.  If you didn't bring a firearm into this fight,
     equip a fast melee weapon, wait for her to do an attack so you can get
     close, hit the monster a few times and then run.  This will make the fight
     much harder than it should be; there's no reason why you shouldn't have
     enough ammo to fight here unless you went all Rambo in the sanitarium and
     shot everything in sight.  And even then you still should have some ammo
     if you took that last detour mentioned.

Pick up the PAST PIECE when done.  In the lobby, check the table opposite
reception for a THEATRE TICKET.  In the trunk of the car outside is the LUMBER
YARD KEY.  Unfortunately, Travis will not try to steal the car to make getting
around town easier.  Instead, we have to hoof it to the lumber yard on Midway
Avenue.


========================================
To the Theatre                     [ss2]
========================================

Backtrack from Acadia to Toluca, through the butcher shop to Low Street, from
Cielo to Midway, up to the lumber yard.  You might have noticed some grotesque
changes in the butcher shop as well as a BLOODY CAP with a message for help.
Unfortunately, it's too late to do anything.  (Why is a monster asking for help
anyway?  And why would Travis be concerned for a monster's well-being?)  Chug
your energy drinks to make sure you stay a step ahead of the monsters on the
streets.

After a short jaunt in the lumber yard, you'll find a HEALTH DRINK and a
NEWSPAPER.  A HAMMER lies further ahead.  Out on the street, check the alley by
the tavern for TARGET PISTOL AMMO.  If you're itching for supplies, go south
and head over to Ash Road.  The yard on Travis' left will yield an ENERGY DRINK
and a MEAT HOOK.  There's more TARGET PISTOL AMMO between the southern houses
on Ash, as far south as you can go.  Go north on Industry Drive.  When it
curves to the right, head up to the left for TARGET PISTOL AMMO x2 and a CRATE.
In another alley in this corner lies more TARGET PISTOL AMMO.  If you go south
on Acadia just a little bit, you should see a house on your right that has
JAGGED WOOD and a HEALTH DRINK on the porch.

Your real destination here is the Greenfield Apartments past the church.
There's 2 ENERGY DRINKS, a HAMMER, and a BATON in the courtyard around the
stairs.  Upstairs is a TOASTER and a SCREWDRIVER on the counter and two boxes
of TARGET PISTOL AMMO on the couch, as well as a TABLE LAMP on the table.  In
the bedroom is a NAPKIN, a RAZOR, and a huge mess.  Grab the FIRST AID KIT in
the bathroom and jump through the hole.  Nothing is down here, but make note
of mailbox 213 as you head out.

Go across the street and into the fenced-in area to find SERVICE PISTOL AMMO,
RIFLE AMMO, and a HEALTH DRINK.  To the right of the theatre, in an alley, is
more SERVICE PISTOL AMMO, a HEALTH DRINK, and a MEAT HOOK.  Travis won't go any
farther until he's gone to the theatre, so use your ticket at the booth and
enter.


========================================
Artaud Theatre                     [ath]
========================================

Grab the THEATRE MAP from the bench.  There's a WRENCH and a HEALTH DRINK on
the west side of the lobby.  A locked door is up the nearby stairs, along with
some TARGET PISTOL AMMO.  Downstairs, take the THEATRE PROGRAM PAGE by the
auditorium for the message, "Caliban has it in his cave."  Enter the auditorium
for a disturbing meeting with Lisa.  There's a HEALTH DRINK to the right of the
stage in front of curtain control.  Enter storage on the left to get a
TYPEWRITER.  Exit to the right.  (Any other Silent Hill 2 fans instantly think
that puppet at the back was a mannequin?)

On the stage, an audio flashback will play.  A piece of JAGGED WOOD lies
outside of Curtain Control.  The TECHNICIAN'S WARNING is taped to the switch,
and IRON WEIGHTS are on the nearby desk.  SERVICE PISTOL AMMO lies next to the
save point and a KITCHEN KNIFE.  A HAMMER is in the southern part of the next
hall.  Through the northern door, one of those puppets, Ariels, will come to
life.  They grapple the same way the Nurses do, so mash X and counterattack.
Check the shelf it was guarding for a HEALTH DRINK.

A PORTABLE TV is between the dressing rooms.  The SUN TOTEM is in the
director's office along with the SERVICE PISTOL, SERVICE PISTOL AMMO and a
HANDWRITTEN DIARY PAGE.  The service pistol replaces the target pistol in terms
of power.  You won't find much, if any, target pistol ammo anymore, so feel
free to shoot it all you want to get the most out of it.  Grab the HEALTH
DRINK on the shelf behind you and exit to find an Ariel guarding an ENERGY
DRINK and SHOTGUN AMMO.  Everything else is locked or jammed, except for the
men's dressing room, which houses a mirror, a KATANA, and PRODUCTION NOTES.
Use the mirror.

Ariels guard the narrow halls, and it's difficult to sneak past them.  Luckily,
you've got quite a bit in the way of strong melee weapons (katana, anyone?) so
they shouldn't be a problem.  Otherwise, use your target pistol.  This is one
of the few places where it's a better idea to fight.  The BALCONY CORRIDOR
KEY and some SERVICE PISTOL AMMO are in the director's office.

A Carrion patrols the next hallway south of the dressing room.  Sneak past to
find a new, bloodier Straight-jacket in the next room.  In the stairwell, check
the railing on the landing for SERVICE PISTOL AMMO.  An Ariel is on the second
floor.  Go to the door behind it to see two square depressions.  Light and
darkness.  The Sun Totem we picked up fits the bill for the right hand slot.
There's nothing more to do here, so backtrack to the mirror on the first floor.

The balcony corridor was that one locked door upstairs, so backtrack through
Curtain Control, storage, and the auditorium to the lobby stairs.  Up here,
you'll see an Ariel on the floor.  They're still basically the same except they

don't grapple.  In the lighting box is a FIRST AID KIT and four bulbs of 750W,
125W, 250W, and 500W.  Grab the SHOTGUN AMMO, SCREWDRIVER, and WIRING NOTES as
well.  Crap, I smell a number puzzle coming up.

Exit through the other side of the corridor and head south.  A HEALTH DRINK
waits on a box on the landing.  Kill the Straight-jacket in the next room for
the MOON TOTEM.  Unlock the north door and sneak your way back to the mirror in
the men's dressing room.  Head south and upstairs to the door where we already
placed our Sun Totem.  Three Ariels now stand guard.  You should try and take
them out with a firearm since attacking one will alert the others and sneaking
by them is pretty hard.  Don't stay in one place or they will corner you.
Either escape back out the door or run to the other side of the room.  Put the
Moon Totem on the left and enter.

Take out the Carrion and the two Ariels further down through the last door on
the left to claim a KITCHEN KNIFE and the awesome HUNTING RIFLE with RIFLE
AMMO.  Use the mirror in costume storage to switch realities.  A KATANA lies on
a shelf.  Check the desk for the SKETCHES (and a horrible sound from behind
you) and a HEALTH DRINK.

An AMPOULE lies at the end of the hall outside past the Ariels.  IRON WEIGHTS
and a save point wait in the orchestra storage room.  In the eastern hall,
RIFLE AMMO sits in front of a catwalk door.  On the only available catwalk,
you'll find our next brain teaser.

     ==================
     Stage Light Puzzle
     ==================
     For this puzzle, you need four bulbs and the Wiring Notes.  There are four
     lights here: A, B, C, and D.  The four bulbs are 750 watts, 125 watts, 250
     watts, and 500 watts.  The Wiring Notes hint at which ones go where.
     
        B is half the wattage of D.
        A + B must not exceed the wattage of C.
        D must not exceed the wattage of A.

     Let's start with B first.  There's two options: 250 (half of 500) or 125
     (half of 250).  If B is 250, then D is 500.  This means A must be 750
     (since D can't exceed A), but this won't work since 750 + 250 is
     definitely more than 125, the only choice left for C.

     Therefore, B must be 125, and D is 250.  A could be either 500 or 750, but
     remember than A + B can't go over C, so A must be 500 with C being 750.
     500 + 125 is less than 750, so we're in the clear.

     To recap:
        A = 500W
        B = 125W
        C = 750W
        D = 250W

     When they're in place, go to the end of the catwalk and flip the fuse
     switch.  The lights will be on.

Go south down the stairs to the first floor.  Go to Curtain Control and flip
the switch. Since the curtain's connected to the lights and they now have
power, the curtain can be lifted.

A large mirror is on the stage.  SHOTGUN AMMO is hiding at the left hand side
of the stage.  There's nothing of interest through this mirror, surprisingly
enough.  Go to set control on the right hand side of the stage and mess around
with the switches to see different pieces of scenery and props.  If you match
the scene with its correct prop, the mirror and the Otherworld are affected.
Flip the first scenery switch for the forest, and then flip the second prop
switch for the tree.

Through the mirror lies Forest World.  Head up the red-lit path to the right
and grab the STAGE OFFICE KEY from the creepy tree. An audio clip will then
chime in for a good, cheap scare.

Back through the mirror, flip the third scenery switch and the first prop
switch for Old Dusty Library World.  Read the three memos on the table,
"REPRESSION AND COERCION", "ASTRAL PROJECTION: THE PERFECT ASSASSIN?", and "AN
ID TORN IN TWO".  An AMPOULE, RIFLE AMMO x2, and the "MANIFESTATIONS OF
DELUSIONS" memo are on a stand towards the back of the room.

Your next destination is the stage office room on the first floor.  Watch out
for the Carrion and multiple Ariel monsters on the way.  Might as well blast
them in such close quarters.  Fight another Ariel in the office and take the
PROP CONTROL LEVER as your prize.  Yes, now you have to go back to the stage.
Either run like hell or stand and clear a path through all the new monsters.
Use your lever at the prop panel and flip it along with the second scenery
switch.  Caliban's Cave is now available.  Equip your hunting rifle and head on
in.

     =======
     Caliban
     =======
     Caliban is an absolute hulk, and it hurts my back just to watch him move.
     He's so slow that he should pose no real threat.  His only attacks take a
     while for him to execute.  One is when he raises his back legs and slams
     them to the ground, creating a shockwave that stuns Travis and sets him up
     for another blow.  The other is when he shudders, roars, and charges.
     Both are easily detected, easily avoided.

     The area you're fighting in isn't exactly roomy, but it is long, and that
     will do.  Use the same strategy you did in the sanitarium.  Fire off 3 or
     4 rifle shots and wait for him to get close.  He'll try to attack you, but
     you should already be running around to get behind him.  If you don't wait
     for him to get close, there's a good chance that he'll try to follow you
     around the room instead, giving you less room with which to work.

     Firearms are the way to go.  The shotgun might not be such a good one to
     use since Caliban must be close to you to attack.  Stick with the rifle or
     your service pistol.  The rifle is slow, but so is Caliban.  If you time
     your runs right, the rifle's excellent range and power will make short
     work of him.  Melee weapons could actually work here too.  Wait for
     Caliban to get close and attack, then run up and smack him a bit from the
     side or behind him, and then run away when he attempts an attack.

     AfroMike has sent in a melee weapon strategy for those of you who want a
     thrill or are out of ammo:
     "For the boss Caliban I found the best way to take him out was to taunt
     him into attacking.  As he winds up to attack thats when you run around.
     When he attacks, he doesn't move his position so you can get to his back
     very easily. Then when you get to his back you take out the Katana (Unless
     it was already out) and go to town. It only takes one Katana (Maybe a
     half) to kill him. It's a major ammo saver and it's pretty safe if you run
     at the right time and not too late."

Grab the FALSEHOOD PIECE and prepare to black out yet again.  In the lobby,
grab the MOTEL KEY from the mutilated Ariel and prepare to head out.


========================================
To the Motel                       [ss3]
========================================

Head west down Koontz Street and check the first alley on the north side for
SHOTGUN AMMO and a HEALTH DRINK.  Stop in the public records office and check
the back of the room for two boxes of SERVICE PISTOL AMMO and an ALTERED POLICE
REPORT.  A TYPEWRITER is on the other side of the room with RIFLE AMMO x2 and
the CLOSED CASE memo.  A FILING CABINET can be found behind you near a window.

On Wein Street, there's a BATON and an ENERGY DRINK by the cop car.  Further
down the street, you'll see the Carrion monsters have grown immense.  They
fight like Caliban, rearing up and crashing down, and there is absolutely no
reason to fight them because they will more than likely just respawn.  Don't
think they're slow because of their size either; this one will likely chase
you for the rest of your stay on the street.  Put it down with a firearm if you
must.

A HAMMER lies past the Taco Shack on Canyon Street.  In the alley past Green
Pharmacy is SHOTGUN AMMO and a CRATE.  In front of the pharmacy is SERVICE
PISTOL AMMO, and down Simmons Street is a HEALTH DRINK on a car and a SHOVEL
behind that.  Grab the HEALTH DRINK on a table at the café and the SERVICE
PISTOL AMMO in the corner and then run to Wilson Street.  At the end of the
street is SERVICE PISTOL AMMO and an ENERGY DRINK.  Head for the bookstore.

Inside, grab the ASSAULT RIFLE and ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO x2.  (Who uses a real
rifle on a promotional cut-out?!  Only in Silent Hill...)  Get the SHOP NOTE at
the cash register and then think back to your stay in the apartments.  The one
apartment number we encountered was 213, the one with the overflowing mailbox.
Punch that in the register and take the BOOKSTORE KEY.  Exit out the back.

Outside, go into the hospital area to find SHOTGUN AMMO x2 and a HEALTH DRINK
on a dumpster.  There's also a TOOLBOX by the locked doors.  Check the alley by
the post office for a HEALTH DRINK and a TIRE IRON.  The benches west of the
post office hold ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO x2.  Your next stop is the general store.
There's Carrions roaming, but there's also goodies down the left side of the
street, so stick to the sidewalk.  Check where you got your town map to find a
KITCHEN KNIFE.  Go down a little farther to the gate that's across from the
general store.  Here are two boxes of RIFLE AMMO in a trash can and a MEAT GAFF
on the gate.

Inside the shop, an AMPOULE is on the floor ahead of you.  Check the second
aisle for ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO and SERVICE PISTOL AMMO x2.  A SCREWDRIVER and a
TOOLBOX lie by the freezers.  A HEALTH DRINK and a save point are by the
counter with the TILL RECEIPT.  Get the BROKEN POLE off the floor if you want.

Out in the fog again, grab the ENERGY DRINK across from you on a crate.  Go
down Midway but watch for all the Carrions.  Just run since there's no items
to pick up.  Cut south from Midway to Cielo and grab the HEALTH DRINK by the
trash can on the way.  On Cielo, you'll see Caliban.  Don't even bother
fighting; just keep going west.  Behind Allen Storage is a TIRE IRON, RIFLE
AMMO, and a HEALTH DRINK.

The rest here is a bit of a detour; if you'd rather get on with things, go to
the circled area on your map and skip to the next section.  As soon as you're
on Toluca Avenue, check the southern side of the building behind Allen Storage
for an ENERGY DRINK, HEALTH DRINK, and ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO.  Go as far south as
you can to the Blue Catfish Diner.  Around the west side of the diner, in an
area off your map, is TARGET PISTOL AMMO and a CRATE.  Past the Carrion to the
west of the diner is SHOTGUN AMMO x2.  RIFLE AMMO and a HAMMER are in the scrap
yard.  Caliban guards the scrap yard proper.  In there, you'll find a SHOVEL,
ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO, TARGET PISTOL AMMO, an ENERGY DRINK, and a hard-to-see
PITCHFORK.  At the front of Allen Storage is ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO.  Now head to
the motel any way you can.



========================================
Riverside Motel                    [rsm]
========================================

The motel is a pretty awesome area; just wait until it really gets going.
Ahead of you is a save point.  To your right is Reception.  Get the MOTEL MAP
behind you after the scene.  Read the GUEST REGISTER and go behind the desk to
pick up the ROOM 306 KEY.  Scope out the rotary calendar behind the desk; you
won't be touching this for a while, but keep it in the back of your mind.  Go
through the nearby door.

Go through the gate next to the stairs.  A Straight-jacket guards RIFLE AMMO in
Room 209.  A CRATE lies in front of the nearby dumpster back outside.  Room
302 holds shoes and a LIGHT STAND.  Go back to the previous area and up the
stairs.  In Room 316 is a LIGHT STAND and a pretty sorry-looking wedding set-
up.  Ignore the passage that Carrion is guarding; it leads to a locked door.
In Room 308 is a new monster called a Twoback.  It's basically a Straight-
jacket on steroids.  It has a disturbing one-button grapple and can spit acid
at you as well as tackle.  Yes, it looks like what you think it does.  Yes, it
totally propagates the "lonely trucker" stereotype.  In close quarters like
this, just blast it with the shotgun and take the SHOTGUN AMMO it was guarding.
Unlock Room 306 and go through the mirror.

The note "TO MY BELOVED WIFE" is on the wall by the door.  There's a SPEAR in
Room 309 and a HEALTH DRINK in the toilet by the Straight-jacket.  To move on,
enter the door north of Room 305.  SHOTGUN AMMO x2 can be found in the upper
left corner of this area.  The only other open door in this area is to the
south, leading to the 200/300-block of rooms.

Room 209 has a SPEAR in the toilet.  Across from this room, towards the middle
of the area, is a PITCHFORK.  Room 301 has a FIRST AID KIT on the toilet that
you must kill a Straight-jacket to claim.  The 500-block is guarded by a
Twoback.  Room 503 has a mirror for you.  Real world 503 is the home of an
obsessive; the pictures are all of the Butcher, that demon that has been
chopping everything up.  The NOTE ON THE RITUAL is on the desk.  Caliban is
patrolling outside.  He's no threat.  A SHOVEL is outside the maintenance room.

Inside maintenance, a TOOLBOX is on the floor in front of you.  Go to your left
to see a hole in the wall guarded by a Straight-jacket.  Check every peephole
in this hall for some interesting sights.  Pay attention to the calendar on the
wall in Room 500.  The date circled is the 12th and must be important for it to
be marked.  Someone is keeping a TV near the bath tub in the Pink Moon Suite.
There's a familiar red jacket and voices in the Rose Suite.  (Are those
syringes in the bathroom?  Is Lisa on drugs?)  Grab the BROKEN POLE nearby, the
"SHOTGUN" PHOTO, and the MANAGER'S OFFICE KEY at the end of the hall.  Check
out Room 503's peephole to see ... holy hell!  He's following us!  He will have
disappeared when you take a second look.

Back in the maintenance room, the JANITOR'S NOTE is further back with a HEALTH
DRINK and REDEEMER AMMO.  There's also a vice back here; remember it for later.
We need to get to the manager's office, and it's gonna take the long way.  On
your map, you should see a narrow passage behind the staff accommodation room.
Head that way but equip your rifle.  Two Twobacks are in this narrow corridor,
and you should kill them from a distance to make it through okay.

Consult your map to make it to the manager's office.  Grab the nearby FILING
CABINET and shoot the Twoback in the room.  Pick up the ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO and
DUTY LOG.  Exit out the back.

Unlock the nearby gate for easy access.  To your right, Caliban waits by a TIRE
IRON.  In Room 108, a Twoback guards a HEALTH DRINK, ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO, and a
CRATE.  You'll also find the REDEEMER by the Confederate flag with a box of
REDEEMER AMMO.  This is your strongest firearm yet, so save your ammo for a big
fight.  Room 106 has a Twoback, a KITCHEN KNIFE, and RIFLE AMMO x2 by the
window sill.  Grab the ammo and run.  Ignore the white noise past the Laundro
Mat since it's only a Straight-jacket guarding a piece of JAGGED WOOD.  Check
out the sight outside the kitchen, equip a firearm (the assault rifle is good)
and enter.

     ===========
     The Butcher
     ===========
     The Butcher is fairly slow, but it's still vitally important to keep your
     distance.  His only attack seems to be to swing his big knife.  Since the
     blade isn't that long, he has to be pretty close to cut you, and you
     should be able to survive a couple of swings before healing.  He will
     initiate a two-button grapple with you if you are close enough.  Failing
     this one means being impaled and is, I think, one of the most brutal in-
     game character deaths in a Silent Hill game.  (Not overly gory but painful
     to watch nonetheless.)

     Use the island in the middle of the kitchen to give yourself breathing
     room.  Stay in a corner and shoot him as he follows.  When he's too close,
     run away to the next corner, manually reload, and continue shooting.
     Follow this merry-go-round cycle until he falls.  With the assault rifle,
     it shouldn't take too long.  You might not want to use the hunting rifle
     since it is too slow.  Although, Aya has e-mailed in to say that you can
     usually squeeze in 3-4 shots as long as you reload manually through the
     menu and not let Travis do it.  The Redeemer is also a good choice for
     this match.  Fighting with a melee weapon is obviously not advised since
     nothing you have will slow the Butcher down long enough to keep you safe
     from his knife.  If you want, charge attacks may work, but they'll
     probably just put you right in the Butcher's clutches.  Fight from a
     distance.

     When it's fallen, Travis will deliver the finishing blow in his own
     special way.

There's a MEAT CLEAVER and MEAT GAFF in this room if you want them.  The note,
"TO MY ABSENT WIFE" is by the jukebox.  Save and exit.

In the pool area, enter the Game Room and approach the pinging pin ball
machine at the back.  There are also 5 POOL CUES here if you need them.  Grab
the TOKEN and leave for an audio flashback.  Elsewhere outside, Room 201 has a
Straight-jacket in.  Room 102 has a Twoback guarding RIFLE AMMO x2 and a LIGHT
STAND.  You've no doubt noticed the shiny object on the bottom of the pool in
this area.  Travis doesn't feel like a swim, so put that on hold for now.

In the Laundro Mat, a HEALTH DRINK rests on a nearby chair and the WASHING
MACHINE MANUAL is in the middle of the room.  Check the washer with the red
light.

     ======================
     Washing Machine Puzzle
     ======================
     Reread the Janitor's Note and the Washing Machine Manual.  The former
     tells you how to reset the machine: set it to low spin, 60 degree wash,
     drain, and pre-rinse.  The manual tells you which symbols do what.

     Put your token in the machine and examine it.  Because it is hard for me
     to accurately describe symbols, I'll also refer to them on a clock-face
     basis.  For example, the symbol at 1 o'clock (the box with the arrow) is
     pre-rinse.

     Press X and use the arrow buttons to turn the dial on the washer to these
     symbols in this order; be sure to hit X after turning the dial to each
     symbol to get the washer to go through that cycle:

        8 o'clock (low spin, circle with a dot in it)
        4 o'clock (60 degree wash, water with two dots in it)
        10 o'clock (drain, square with squiggly lines and down arrow)
        1 o'clock (pre-rinse, square with arrow and dot)

     Your reward is the CLEOPATRA KEY.

Go upstairs now.  Room 111 holds nothing.  The only other thing of interest
here is the Cleopatra room.  RIFLE AMMO sits on the table, and a PORTABLE TV
is on the shelf.  The "SNAKEBITE" PHOTO is on the bed.  Jump through the hole
in the bath tub for a scene.  SHOTGUN AMMO, a TELEGRAM, and a TYPEWRITER are in
the main room.  That bastard, Kaufmann, has locked us in, so go back to the
bathroom to find a mirror.

A Twoback will meet you on the way out.  The "OVERDOSE" PHOTO is on the wall
here, and a MEAT HOOK is by the door.  Outside, you'll notice that the pool has
been drained.  Go and pick up the JEWELED HEART.  Up near Room 104, you'll find
RIFLE AMMO x2.  Room 102 holds nothing of interest.  An ORNAMENTAL DAGGER is
stuck in the diner.  Take it.

Up on the second floor, Room 112 is another fluke, as is 212.  The Nero room
has a slit in the door.  Just the right size for a dagger, don't you think?
Try it out.  Inside, SHOTGUN AMMO is in the first room.  The "STABBING" PHOTO
is in the next, with a MEAT CLEAVER and a hole in the bathroom.  What's a
Silent Hill game without jumping in a hole or two?  Or three or four?

Take the FIRST AID KIT to Travis' right before entering the other hole.  Look
through the peepholes and grab the SPEAR and the "BROKEN HEART" PHOTO at the
end.  (Isn't that Travis' father?)  The "TO A GHOST" letter is in the
maintenance room.  Out the door, enter Room 503 and warp through the mirror.
All these letters from Travis' father speak of great grief; his heart is
broken, just like what the photo said.  In his last letter, he spoke of a gift
that his wife smashed.  Since we're at an impasse, check your inventory to spy
the jeweled heart, our last major item left.  Examine it to see that something
is rattling around inside.  How are we going to break this heart (since using
one of the many sledgehammers in our possession doesn't seem to be an option)?
Remember the vice in the maintenance room?  Go there and use the heart by it to
smash it open for the WEDDING RING.  Examine it to see that the month June is
important.

We're at another impasse.  All we have left is a day and a month.  This should
remind you that we have a rotary calendar puzzle yet to solve.  Make your way
to Reception to get to it.

     ==========================
     The Rotary Calendar Puzzle
     ==========================
     This puzzle is already two-thirds solved.  We have the day, the 12th, and
     the month, June, but we don't have the year.  The Grady family fell on
     hard times after Helen was committed for attacking Travis.  All Richard's
     lamentations spring from that event.  If you remember the patient memos
     from the sanitarium, they're dated 1960 and 1961.

     Trying both years and figuring out which one is right is easy.  However,
     if you want definite proof that the answer is 1961, check Travis' lucky
     quarter.  It has the number 61 etched into it and is a keepsake he's had
     from when his parents died (we'll see why it's a quarter here shortly).
     It's not clear when Helen died, and we don't know what Richard did to
     himself (yet), but it's clear that both his parents "died" in some form or
     another in the year 1961.

     The full date on the rotary calendar is 06/12/1961.  A small depression
     opens.  The wedding ring fits there nicely.  This reveals the ROOM 500
     KEY behind you.

You can only enter Room 500 from the Otherworld, so make your way back to the
mirror in Room 503, watching out for the second Caliban now roaming about.  A
cutscene will take you to the door, which leads to a long staircase.  Equip a
firearm before entering the door below.

     ===========================
     The Memory of Richard Grady
     ===========================
     This room you're fighting in is the smallest boss fight area yet!  Richard
     is probably the physically toughest boss in the game; even when using
     overpowered weapons like the Moon Gauntlets in a repeat game, he'll take
     more punishment than anyone else.  This monster has two tendrils that will
     attempt to strangle you periodically.  Mash the X button to come out of
     this grapple unscathed or else you will be strangled to death.  The
     central head will also lash out and try to bite, as well as spew a gas at
     you.  The biting attack looks vicious but doesn't seem to connect if you
     stay back against the wall.  The gas attack is the most harmful because it
     is insanely hard to avoid; this is when the head's mouth closes and
     instantly pours gas in your direction.  If you're quick, you can avoid the
     linear blast, but it's tough.

     You don't have much room in which to work.  Running back and forth to the
     left and right is all you can do.  Choose a gun like the assault rifle or
     Redeemer that is fast and powerful.  The rifle is out.  Stay back against
     the wall to avoid the bites, and prepare to heal if the gas attack hits
     you multiple times.  When the tendrils appear, run back and forth to avoid
     them.  The head does not attack at all while the tendrils are out.  Stand
     to the far left or right and fire off a couple of shots/rounds.  Run to
     the other side when the tendrils catch up to you.  If you're lucky, you'll
     avoid them completely and will be able to pump enough rounds into the
     beast before you take much damage.

     Another strategy is to continue to stick to the two corners available to
     you.  Stand in one and fire a couple of shots, but then instantly run to
     the other corner without waiting for the tendrils or the head to attack.
     If you fire and run quickly, the head should attack where you were, and
     you'll be free to fire a few more rounds before it recuperates.  If you
     want, Luke has confirmed that the hunting rifle can be a good choice as
     long as you play it safe.  Only squeeze off a few shots at a time.

     Aya has e-mailed in an alternate strategy:
     "As soon as you enter the room and the battle starts, don't move and start
     unloading the assault rifle on Richard. Immediately as soon as it runs out
     of ammo, enter the inv and reload (don't let Travis reload on screen) and
     keep shooting and repeat til he's down. During that time, if the tentacles
     come down just do the x mashing thing and go back to shooting. His head
     doesn't reach to bite. Finally, if he spews gas (looks more like blood to
     me) at you, don't try to avoid it, just take it and when you go to inv to
     reload, use a health drink to go back up to green. He can never make 2
     spews between reloading, and most of the times not even 1. Even if you
     have no health items, as long as you enter with green health, you can take
     up to 2 spews, and you would have to be extremely unlucky for him to get a
     3rd one in (usually i take only 1)."

The TRUTH PIECE lies on the floor.  Travis gives Alessa a piece of his mind
and blacks out as usual.  He'll wake up in front of a FIRST AID KIT and
REDEEMER AMMO.  Make your way through the rooms, making sure to examine the
gurney Travis has his eye on.  It's the one used to transport Alessa to her
special room.  Get the AMPOULE, ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO, and WRENCH opposite the
door before nabbing the PRESENT PIECE on the floor.  (Thanks to Tee Kay Vin and
Kristoffer for pointing this out.)

     ==================
     The Flauros Puzzle
     ==================
     This puzzle is not overly hard, but it can be frustrating because you're
     not really given any hints.  You're putting together the Flauros using the
     pieces you've collected.  The present piece is the base and all others are
     the ends.  Twist the present piece around to get a look at all the symbols
     on it.  The end pieces have similar symbols on them (not exact, but
     similar).  The idea is to get all the similar symbols matching on each
     side of the pyramid.

     This is mainly done through trial and error.  Pick a side and pick a
     piece.  Stick it on and rotate it so like symbols on all sides of the
     piece match the base.  Make sure they match on all sides.  All the symbols
     with lines and Xs should be on one side, all the circles with intersecting
     semi-circles on another, etc.  It's like a cult version of a Rubix Cube
     except that this one is solvable.

     I have been notified via e-mail that the solution to the construction is
     not random.  Since I realize people read walkthroughs for help, and it's
     no help if I just say "Keep trying!" when they want a definite answer,
     here it is, thoughtfully sent it in by Carla:
     "The pieces are numbered 1 to 4 from left to right:
     "use piece 3, press square twice, press R1; use piece 1, press square
     twice,press R1; use piece 2, press square twice, press R1; use piece 4,
     press square once!"

Once it's complete, follow Alessa up the stairs, into the hospital area we
traversed earlier.  Head straight for the exit for an amazing cutscene.


========================================
Nowhere                            [now]
========================================

I know that this place isn't technically Nowhere (from the first Silent Hill),
but it was the first thing that came to mind when naming and playing this
section.  Also, "Nowhere" sounds cooler than "Alternate Silent Hill".  Writer's
rants aside, this place is pure, nightmarish Silent Hill, which means it's very
dark.  This can work to your advantage though, since the plethora of monsters
walking around can't see you that well because of it.  Get the SHOVEL and
AMPOULE to Travis' right.  Follow the linear path and make sure to grab the
CHILD'S MAP on the wall.  Alessa has your route planned (if you're on the PSP);
there's no special areas to visit here, no key items to pick up.  It's
basically a chance to refill your inventory before the big fight, so if you'd
rather not waste time with dark areas and respawning monsters, feel free to
just follow the path on your map by running like hell.

Go as far left on Koonts Street as you can to grab REDEEMER AMMO x2, a MEAT
GAFF, and a FIRST AID KIT by the Twoback.  Go back and head right on Koonts for
ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO x2.  Head north on Simons and you should see a PITCHFORK in
a tree stump.  Go left on Sagan.  ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO x2 is past the Carrion.
There's also a BROKEN POLE in the baby carriage.  Follow your blue path right
on Sagan to some ASSAULT RIFLE AMMO and an ENERGY DRINK.  Follow the blue path
the rest of the way north until you spy a HEALTH DRINK and TIRE IRON ahead of
you on a wall.  Turn right and enter the Green Lion Antique Shop.

Read the YELLOWED PAGE memo on the table and then enter the hole in the wall.
You'll have to guide Travis through; just tilt the analog stick to the left and
watch the scenery change.

On the other end, you'll see an altar and six save points on the wall.  This is
a Silent Hill game's way of telling you that you're in the home stretch and had
better save.  Follow the red ... thing to another awesome scene.

     ==============
     Alessa's Dream
     ==============
     To alleviate confusion, I'm referring to this monster by the name the
     official strategy guide uses.  It has three primary attacks.  One is a
     close range arm swipe, easily avoided by staying far away.  The second is
     when its hands glow orange and it summons fireballs to the area.  You can
     tell where the fire's going to hit by looking for orange spots on the
     floor, but it's still hard to avoid getting hit at least once.  One hit
     makes Travis reel, most likely getting him hit by another fireball.  The
     third attack is when the beast rears back, screeches, and seems to tear
     apart its chest to shoot a linear beam of light.  Run away from in front
     of it to avoid this.  By far, the fire is the biggest annoyance in this
     fight, while the arm swipe does the most damage.

     Pick a firearm you like and go to town.  Keep your distance but remember
     to drop everything and run when it screeches.  The rifle is a good choice
     here, either the hunting or assault variety.  It will take more bullets
     than average to take this monster down.  Just repeat the major strategy of
     "stay in place, fire shots, run when confronted, rinse, repeat".  If you
     want to fight man-to-demon with a melee weapon, wait for it to do one of
     its two long range attacks.  The monster does not move during these, and
     it is safe to get close as long as you don't swing more times than you
     should.  Take a few swats and then back off before it swipes at you.

Travis will trap the beast in the Flauros after it's succumbed.  If this is
your first playthrough, you're guaranteed the good ending, which leads right
into the original Silent Hill game.  However, veterans of the series know that
not everything ends up smelling like roses in this town...


===============================================================================
Extras

What's a Silent Hill game without extras?  This title, surprisingly, has quite
a few things to unlock.

========================================
Endings                            [end]
========================================

There are three endings to Silent Hill Ørigins.

   ===============
   The Good Ending
   ===============
   This is the default ending for all first-time playthroughs.  In subsequent
   games, the only way to get it is simply to avoid the criteria for the other
   two, which involves not killing so many enemies and avoiding a certain key
   at the post office.  This ending leads right up to the first Silent Hill
   game.

   ==============
   The Bad Ending
   ==============
   This ending is for those that want to know the truth about Travis as only
   Silent Hill could reveal it.  To get this ending, you must kill a certain
   amount of enemies.  The total is supposedly at least 200 and up, but this is
   debatable (it could actually only be 150).  Just kill everything in sight
   and you're good to go.  You can only get this ending after you've beaten the
   game at least once.  Shedding so much blood over the course of the game
   awakens some repressed memories for our poor protagonist.

   ==============
   The UFO Ending
   ==============
   Yes, it's back, and it's amazing!  To get this ending, you must have
   completed the game at least once.  Check the stairs next to the post office
   that were blocked before to get the ROOM 502 KEY.  You have two different
   chances to get the key: before the hospital and after the theatre.  Use this
   key in the Riverside Motel in the real world to get your ending.


========================================
Accolades                          [acc]
========================================

New in Silent Hill Ørigins is the accolades system.  Instead of being ranked at
the end of a game, you gain accolades for certain criteria met while you
played.  Below is a full list, courtesy of the GameSpot forums, as well as tips
to get each one.  Completing an accolade usually nets you an item and always
gets you a bonus costume for your next game.  All weapons unlocked through
accolades have either infinite durability or ammo.

   Savior: Beat the game the first time.
     This unlocks the Moon Gauntlets (melee).
     Tips: The whole point of this guide is to get you this accolade, so
           consult the walkthrough to finish if you need help.

   Butcher: Get the bad ending.
     This unlocks the Great Cleaver (melee).
     Tips: Getting the bad ending is not hard.  The Moon Gauntlets you got from
           completing Savoir are powerful enough to mow every enemy down.  Kill
           upwards of 150-200 enemies to get the ending.

   Ambassador: Get the UFO ending.
     This unlocks the Tesla Rifle (firearm).
     Tips: There are multiple chances to grab the Room 502 key by the post
           office; one is right before the first visit to the hospital and the
           second is after the theatre.  Just make sure you get it and use it
           at the real world motel.

   Stalker: Have your flashlight on for less than 3 hours.
     This unlocks the Night Vision Goggles (item).
     Tips: This one is easy since it is 10x safer to play this game without
           your flashlight on at all.  If you can't see something onscreen, try
           turning the brightness up or quickly turn the flashlight on and then
           off when you're done.  PS2 players may have a more difficult time
           here since their version is darker.  You need to jack up the
           brightness on your TV to see well.  Etienne has also proven that you
           can get this accolade in conjunction with a Sprinter Run even if you
           leave your flashlight on all the time.  The Night Vision goggles
           that you get for this accolade are recognized by the game as a
           flashlight and will up your flashlight time should you wear them.
           (Thanks for Goku the Silver Sayain for this tidbit.)

   Collector: Collect more than 300 items.
     Tips: The walkthrough will guide you to the locations of all the items
           I've found, and I get this accolade every single time.

   Sprinter: Beat the game in less than 2 hours.
     This costume makes it so Travis never tires while running.
     Tips: See the Sprinter Run section for tips on how to achieve this
           frustrating accolade.

   Sharpshooter: Kill 75% of enemies with firearms.
     Tips: Get the UFO ending, and the Tesla Rifle will help you get this with
           no problem.  The gun isn't the most powerful thing out there, but
           you can't beat infinite ammo.

   Weaponsmith: Kill 75% of enemies with melee weapons.
     Tips: Use the Moon Gauntlets since they are over-powered and lay waste to
           everything.  If not, there are so many melee weapons lying around
           that you should never be without one.  Make sure not to stomp an
           enemy to kill them since that's a "fist kill".

   Brawler: Kill 50% of enemies with only your fists.
     Tips: Focus on monsters like Nurses, Straight-jackets, and Ariels.  Since
           you only need a percentage of kills with your fists, kill these
           monsters and run from all the others.  Stomping an enemy to kill
           them off counts as a "fist kill" since you're not using a weapon of
           any kind.

   Cartographer: Look at your map less than 25 times.
     Tips: This is one of the hardest to get, in my opinion, and my walkthrough
           might not help here since I reference the map a lot.  Pay attention
           to Travis on this one: he turns his head to look at all open doors,
           so you shouldn't have to consult the map to find a path.

   Explorer: Distance traveled must be greater than 22,500 m (22.5 km).
     Tips: Getting this with the Collector accolade is a sure thing.  Getting
           completely lost will also most likely net you this one.

   Daredevil: Beat the game without saving.
     Tips: Due to the game's length, this one is actually not too difficult.
           Try it in conjunction with a speed run.  PSP players can also cheat
           and take advantage of the system's stand-by feature: while playing
           the game, simply turn the PSP off and then back on when you're ready
           to continue, and your game should resume where you stopped.

   Fireman: Rescue Alessa in the beginning in less than 80 seconds (?).
     This unlocks the Fire Axe (melee).
     Tips: The exact specifics for this are confusing.  I have gotten many
           e-mails about this accolade and heard several discrepancies
           concerning what we think is right.  Apparently, the timer starts
           only after you pick Alessa up.  AfroMike says that you only have
           enough time to touch the flames and stumble twice.
           Mike D. shared how he earned it: "Basically as soon as you start
           head up the stairs and enter the door straight ahead. Then just
           zigzag around the burning furniture and pick up the girl. As soon as
           you do, turn back and run back out the same way you came until you
           crash through the floor. Then just keep following the path until
           Alessa clears 2 fires and head out the door. Quickly follow around
           the stairs and take a left out into the yard. Just remember to push
           START and O to skip the video and L to make the camera view in front
           of you so you don't constantly run into furniture you can't see."
           Time yourself and restart the game if you're not sure you made it.
           James has e-mailed in to say that he timed himself and completed the
           run in 71 seconds and still did not get the accolade.
           I have gotten it just by memorizing where to go, skipping all
           cutscenes, and just flat out running.  I didn't time myself though,
           so I can't comment on the time discrepancy.

   Codebreaker: Input the Konami Code anytime in the game.
     The code is up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, X, O.  You'll
     hear a chime if done correctly.
     Tips: Just enter the code on the in-game screen.  You don't have to open
           your menu or anything.


========================================
Extra Options                      [exo]
========================================

When you beat the game once, you get more in the way of customizable options.
Most of these were standard on previous Silent Hill titles; you must earn them
for this game.

   ========
   Walk/Run
   ========
   Setting this to "Run" will automatically make Travis run everywhere, giving
   your thumb a rest from holding down square all the time.  Holding square on
   "Run" will make him walk instead.


   ===========
   Extra Blood
   ===========
   For the Butcher in us all; fights are gorier and more blood is spilled.


   ============
   Noise Filter
   ============
   Turn this off if you want crisper graphics.  The constant noise filter is a
   Silent Hill staple but turning this off makes seeing the incredible details
   easier.  Also, if you turn the noise filter off, the screen will not turn
   grainy if a monster is near, so you need to rely on your radio more.


   =================
   Bloody Footprints
   =================
   Before, Travis would leave bloody footprints in his wake only after stepping
   in blood.  Turn this on to make it so he always tracks blood.  This also
   adds a sickening squelch to his step.


   ================
   Torch Projection
   ================
   Put a filter over your flashlight to make it project an image.  Nothing
   beats staring down a monstrous version of your insane mother while shining a
   smiley face at her through your flashlight.


===============================================================================
Sprinter Run                                                              [spr]

This speed run is designed to help you achieve the Sprinter accolade.  It's
also a condensed walkthrough for those of you that want a no-nonsense guide
without my text bogging you down.  In the past, speed runs were necessary to
get a 10-star ranking; now, its purpose is to net you a track suit costume that
will make it so Travis never gets tired while running.  (Many thanks to Mózsi
Kiss for help revising this run!)

A few starting hints:
   - Don't try this unless you've gone through the game at least two or three
     times.
   - Do not go out of your way to pick up any items you don't need.  There are
     enough healing items placed directly in your path to ensure you can
     minimize side trips.
   - If I recall correctly, the game's clock stops when you pause (press start)
     but continues to run at all other times (e.g. - in the menu), so use this
     if you need a break or to consult the walkthrough below.
   - Use the energy drinks you have while running through the Silent Hill
     streets.
   - Don't worry about picking up memos.  You are not graded on how many you
     collect, and all the puzzle solutions are below.
   - Use one of the bonus weapons when you have to fight (preferably the Moon
     Gauntlets); that way, you don't have to worry about durability or ammo,
     and boss fights will be over quickly.
   - Pick up all the maps unless you REALLY know your way around town.  Looking
     at the map doesn't take up too much time; plus, it's better to know for
     sure you are going the right way rather than wandering around.
   - Set the Walk/Run extra option to Run.
   - Go for the UFO ending to cut the game short.
   - Skip all cutscenes.

Good luck.

   The Fire:
     - Play through this section normally.  If you're lucky, you'll get the
       Fireman accolade here as well if you haven't already.

   Alchemilla Hospital:
     - Go north on Crichton and turn right on Koontz.
     - Go up the stairs north of the hospital to get the ROOM 502 KEY.  Go
       south to enter the hospital.
     - Get the HOSPITAL MAP from the lobby, and ride the elevator to the second
       floor.
     - Run past the nurse to 205, enter the mirror, and grab the PLASTIC LUNGS.
     - Get the GOLDEN EGG in 202.
     - Go to 204 and enter 312319 to get the PLASTIC HEART.
     - Go downstairs and use the golden egg on the door to the ladies' room.
     - Get the PLASTIC LIVER from the toilet and use the mirror.
     - Get the STAFF LOUNGE KEY in the real world.
     - Go to the lounge to get the EXAM ROOM key.
     - Get the PLASTIC STOMACH and PLASTIC INTESTINE from the sinks.  Put all
       the organs in the anatomy doll: intestine first to the left, stomach to
       the lower left, liver on top of that, heart in the middle right, and
       lungs on top of that.  Grab the GLASS EYES.
     - Go back through the women's restroom mirror.
     - Use the glass eyes on the other locked door in this hall.
     - Enter the exam room and then the doctor's office to battle for the
       FUTURE PIECE.  Use the exit in the hall with the elevator.

   Cedar Grove Sanitarium:
     - Go south on Canyon, west on Midway, cut south by town hall, west on
       Cielo, south on Low to enter the butcher shop.
     - Through the butcher shop, go east on Toluca and then north on Acadia.
     - Run due east through the sanitarium yard.
     - Inside, go through the east solarium, grab the SANITARIUM MAP on the
       table between the doors, and head to the stairwell.  Go to the second
       floor.
     - Head west to the TB ward.  At the iron lung, press button 1 twice,
       button 3 twice, and button 5 twice for the BASEMENT KEY.
     - Downstairs, go up the diagonal hall and climb the stairs here to the
       second floor to the hydrotherapy room.  Drain the tub.
     - Use the mirror in the Female Treatment Room on this floor.
     - Go down to the first floor and use the mirror in the women's restroom.
     - Flush the only open real world toilet.
     - Go to Female Dorm 5 to get the PATIENT BELONGINGS KEY; use it in the
       main foyer on this floor.
     - Use the mirror, take the SHOTGUN barring the door, then make your way to
       the eastern stairwell and the basement.
     - In the east pipe room, grab the INTERVIEW ARCHIVES KEY.  Return through
       the mirror in the storage room down here.
     - Go up the nearby stairs to the second floor to the archives room.  Use
       the mirror here.
     - Make your way downstairs by way of the western stairwell to the basement
       and up the diagonal hall.  Go up to the first floor male wing.
     - Go straight to the infirmary and give the first doll the green pill, the
       second and third blue pills, the fourth a red pill, and the fifth a
       yellow pill.  Take DR. HARRIS' KEY.
     - Go back downstairs through the diagonal hall to and through the basement
       mirror in the storage room by the southwestern stairwell.  Go up the
       southwestern stairwell to the first floor to Dr. Harris' office for the
       JOCASTA ARTIFACT.
     - Head east to the women's room on this floor and use the mirror.
     - Open female seclusion with the Jocasta artifact and enter cell 5 to
       fight for the PAST PIECE.
     - Afterwards, get the THEATRE TICKET from the lobby table and the LUMBER
       YARD KEY outside.

   Artaud Theatre:
     - Go south on Acadia, west on Toluca, through the butcher shop, north on
       Low, east on Cielo, north on Borden, and across Midway to the lumber
       yard.
     - On the other side, go north on Industry as it curves and keep going
       straight across the street to the Greenfield Apartments.
     - Jump through the hole in the bathroom.
     - Run to Travis' right to use your ticket at the theatre.
     - Grab the THEATRE MAP by the box office, then go through the auditorium
       and curtain control to the east wing.
     - Grab the SUN TOTEM in the director's office.
     - Use the mirror in the men's dressing room, grab the BALCONY CORRIDOR KEY
       in the director's office, and go back through the mirror.
     - Backtrack to the lobby and go up the stairs to the west to the balcony.
     - Get the four bulbs (750W, 125W, 250W, 500W) and exit the other side of
       the corridor.
     - Go south and get the MOON TOTEM.
     - Go back through the mirror in the men's dressing room by unlocking the
       north door in the room with the moon totem.  Go all the way south and up
       the stairs.  Place the moon totem on the left and the sun totem on the
       right.
     - Use the mirror in costume storage.
     - Go to the second catwalk down.  Light A gets the 500W bulb, B gets 125W,
       C gets 750W, and D gets 250W.
     - Go south down the stairs here (without going to the Otherworld) to make
       it back to curtain control on the first floor.  Flip the switch.
     - Flip scenery switch 1 and prop switch 2 for the forest.
     - In the forest, grab the STAGE OFFICE KEY and leave.
     - Go through curtain control up to the stage office to get the PROP
       CONTROL LEVER.
     - Return to the stage and flip scenery switch 2 and prop switch 3 to fight
       for the FALSEHOOD PIECE.
     - Grab the MOTEL KEY afterwards and leave.

   Riverside Motel:
     - Go west on Koontz and enter Andy's Books.
     - Punch 213 into the register to get the key to unlock the back door.
     - Head over to Crichton and go south to enter the general store.
     - Go east on Midway, take the first right down an alley, go west on Cielo,
       and follow it as it curves to reach the employee entrance to Riverside
       Motel.
     - Go to reception, look behind you for the MOTEL MAP, and grab the ROOM
       306 KEY.  Exit out the back.
     - Go up the stairs in this area, around, and down the other side.
     - Unlock 306 and use the mirror.
     - Enter the 200/300-block (go north, enter the second door on your left,
       then the next door on your left) and go south to the 500-block.  Enter
       503 and use the mirror.
     - Go next door to 502 and sit back and enjoy.


===============================================================================
Trivia                                                                    [tri]

Silent Hill titles are known for sneaking in a lot of extra content with the
gameplay and plot.  This section will be ever-growing to try and list as many
things as I find, though contributions are always welcome.  It's probably best

to read all these after having played the game at least once, since these will
hopefully give you a reason to play it again.  Plus, THAR BE SPOILERISH CONTENT
PAST THIS POINT!

While the walkthrough was written for the PSP, this section was written while
playing both the PSP and the PS2 versions.  Because of the different platforms'
limitations, there are actually places where the graphics are different.  I
don't know if this is the only reason some of them are changed, but the fact
remains that both versions offer up different easter eggs and tidbits because
of this.  I'll try and note when something is version specific.

   ======================
   Silent Hill References
   ======================
   Ørigins shares an obvious connection to the first game, what with being a
   prequel and all.  However, there are little scattered easter eggs that are
   meant for those who've been through Harry's traumatic experience already.

   For starters, one of the original game's easter eggs returns.  On Harry's
   map, you could plainly see an eatery called "Konami Burger", a reference to
   the ones that made Silent Hill possible: Konami, of course.  In Ørigins, it
   is somewhat hidden.  It's the last (northernmost) building in the blue block
   of establishments on your map west of the post office.  Stand towards the
   southern end of the park area here to get the camera to shift, and you
   should see a sign on the building that says something like "Kon ... Burge".

   The streets of Silent Hill are named for famous authors.  Jess pointed out
   that Koontz street is a reference to writer Dean Koontz:
   "Dean Koontz is a prolific horror/thriller writer who has delt with themes
   similar to those of the game (repressed memories, the supernatural, innocent
   characters being involved in serious/life threatening events, the past
   coming back to haunt a person)."
   Crichton street (named for Michael Crichton) is also visible, as well as
   Wilson (Colin Wilson) and Simmons (San Simmons).  (The last two are courtesy
   of Silent Hill Genesis: http://genesis.silenthillfever.com/)  The names of
   the streets on Travis' map range from cities to foreign bottled water, so no
   continuity there.  Jason has pointed out that the name Cielo is used in
   Shin Megami Tensei: Digital Devil Saga.  The Shin Megami Tensei series uses
   a lot of cultural/mythological/religious icons: both Flauros and Samael make
   multiple appearances.  Thomas sent in another explanation for the name
   Cielo: it was the name of the street where Charles Manson and his "family"
   butchered Sharon Tate and others.
   Jake sent in a suggestion for Borden street: Lizzie Borden was accused of
   chopping up her mother and then her father with an axe.  (Get used to the
   theme of serial killers and murderers running throughout Ørigins; it's
   relevant.)

   When you go to pick up the Room 502 key at the nearby post office, Travis
   will note that there are moths on the building.  This should conjure up
   memories of giant moths attacking Harry on the roof of the building across
   from the hospital.  Looks like they still have some growing to do.

   Travis runs around the same general area of town that Harry did (the
   business district).  Ørigins' town map covers the southern area of this
   district, out of range of the first game.  Alessa's map actually covers the
   area where Harry ran around, taking you right up to the Green Lion Antique
   Shop, which, as Harry found out, is the real center of the cult's religion.
   The Ørigins version of that building is very nearly a direct facsimile of
   the first game's set up.

   Bloody Miss B clued me in to a very important reference I forgot to mention
   as well.  The drugs that can be found in the Rose Suite may very well be
   White Claudia.  In the original Silent Hill, it is known that Lisa Garland
   has an addiction to a certain drug, and completing a certain sidequest lets
   players in on the fact that Kaufmann deals in drugs, specifically White
   Claudia.  This substance is a hallucinogen and is actually what causes Lisa
   to slip into the Otherworld.  Throughout Ørigins, Lisa is alive but not
   necessarily well: she is deteriorating through the use of White Claudia and
   will die sometime between when Travis last sees her and when Harry will meet
   her in the hospital.

   ========================
   Silent Hill 2 References
   ========================
   According to an interview with the producers (courtesy of
   evilunleashed.com), this title has strong ties to Silent Hill 2, and it
   shows.

   Silent Hill 2 is undoubtedly a game with strong psychological aspects.  The
   producers wanted to mirror that with Travis.  Even though the story revolves
   around Alessa and the cult, the events during the game are all related to
   Travis.  Travis and James are very much alike most likely because they share
   the same kind of psychological trauma.  Take a look at the similarities:
     - both see demons that spit acid and are bound by their own skin
       (Patients and Straight-jackets)
     - both are plagued by a representation of their troubled psyche that
       chases them and tries to get them to realize the truth (Pyramid Head
       and the Butcher); not to mention that both wield impressive knives,
       attack humans and monsters indiscriminately, and hide their faces
     - both are plagued by the death of loved ones (Mary, Richard and Helen
       Grady)
     - both have a location in Silent Hill that is connected to their past
       that the town openly advertises to them in the form of a gigantic,
       dilapidated billboard; James has the Lake View Hotel with the sign along
       Nathan Avenue, and Travis has the Riverside Motel with a sign at the
       very start of the game

   You may think you're playing Silent Hill Ørigins to learn more about the
   cult's goings-on, but you're really digging into Travis' head.

   The games also get eerily similar when Travis gets to (and past) the
   Riverside Motel:
     - there are several instances when Travis must walk down long flights of
       stairs, reminiscent of James' long hike in the Silent Hill Historical
       Society, though Travis' stairs are nowhere near as long
     - Travis also has to jump down several holes; again, James has him beat
       in this category (hell, even Henry from Silent Hill 4 rivals James here)
     - after the motel and Nowhere, Travis sees six save points on a wall
       before fighting the big fight; James had nine
     - for the UFO ending, the dog that controlled the world of Silent Hill 2
       comes back (or first arrives?)

   There's also one of the coolest easter eggs ever: Dahlia has a painting of
   Pyramid Head on her wall.  In fact, it is very much like "Misty day, remains
   of the Judgment" from the Historical Society (in composition, anyway).  The
   painting is on the second floor of her house, to the left of the door in
   front of the stairs.  If you examine it, Travis says that there's something
   about it that makes him want to stare at it, but then he snaps back to
   reality and says he hasn't got time and that it will just burn with all the
   others.

   ==============================
   Silent Hill 3 and 4 References
   ==============================
   The same interview mentioned above said that Silent Hill 3 and 4 had an
   effect on Ørigins as well.  Silent Hill 4 was the first game to introduce
   the idea of breakable melee weapons with the various golf clubs Henry finds,
   as well as the large amount of weapons lying around.  Ørigins also uses the
   same grainy filter that number 4 used when Henry encountered a ghost.  It's
   also been noted that the Remnant monsters are related to the wheelchairs (or
   at least one in particular) in Silent Hill 4.  When rescuing Eileen in the
   randomized hospital rooms, Henry comes across a harmless wheelchair with the
   shadow of its former owner, only visible because of the nearby light.  The
   Remnants in Ørigins only show their full form in the light as well.  (Credit
   to Aoi for pointing this out.)

   Silent Hill 3 has the ties to the Alessa/cult plot, but the only blatant
   reference I can find in Ørigins involves the Konami Code.  Silent Hill 3 was
   the only one in the series that accepted the code and gave you a reward for
   using it: Douglas in nothing but boxers, his coat, and a tie (if you call
   that a reward).  For using the code in Ørigins, you get an accolade which
   gives you a costume that looks like Vincent from Silent Hill 3.  Also,
   Ørigins' UFO ending is done in a cartoony style much like 3's Revenge
   ending, and the child's map used towards the end of this game is just like
   the kid's map in the church.

   A two-fer reference occurs in the theatre.  The Valtiel sect of the Silent
   Hill cult is mentioned in the theatre's program.  The Valtiel sect is (or
   was) headed by Jimmy Stone (as seen in Silent Hill 4) and worshipped the
   "angel" Valtiel (as seen in Silent Hill 3) whose job it was to act as a
   "valet" to God and the Holy Mother who birthed her, watching over them and
   keeping the cycle of reincarnation (turning the valve) intact.

   ============================
   Silent Hill Movie References
   ============================
   It was rumored that this game referenced the movie in some way, and it looks
   like we've found how.  ("We" being the numerous people who e-mailed me with
   the following info.  Thanks!)  If you look at the post office across from
   the hospital, you'll see that the windows have the zip code 98941 and the
   words "Roslyn, Wash" on them.  (Unfortunately, the name and postal code seem
   to have been removed for the PS2 port; the windows just say "US Postal
   Service".)  According to Wikipedia, Roslyn was a coal mining town in
   Washington situated on top of a mine.  In 1892, an explosion occurred in
   said mine, and the entire town was hit with an earthquake-like shockwave.
   Burning timbers shot out of the ground and rained down ash and soot, causing
   numerous roof fires.  This type of city-wide destruction is very Silent
   Hill-ish and the raining ash carries a resemblance to the events in the
   movie.

   To avoid spoiling anything, I won't go into details, but if you compare the
   end of the movie and Ørigins, they seem very similar.  The formula is thus:
   our hero confronts the cult under Alessa's influence, then is incapacitated,
   then revives shortly after to see the cult get theirs in some form or other,
   and then [possibly?] escapes.

   Another tie between the movie and Ørigins is in the effects used to
   transition to the Otherworld.  Because of the mirrors, we only get to see
   one real shift in the game, and it's in the cutscene after the motel when
   Travis exits from the hospital a second time.  When Alessa makes her
   impressive entrance, she causes the scenery to flake up and off to make way
   for the Otherworld.  This "flaking" effect was used in the movie frequently.
   (Thanks to Scott for this reference.)

   Seta has sent in another possible tie to the movie: the Caliban enemy that
   looks somewhat like the only original monster in the film, the janitor.
   Konami actually asked the movie people if they could use the janitor design
   in future projects, and this may have been a product of their saying yes:
   "The legs bend over backwards up to the head, the head trying to stay above
   the ground, and using the arms to move. Also note that both the janitor and
   Caliban have no (visible) eyes. The barbed wire is missing, and there are
   buffalo elements instead. But he still looks and moves very similar."
   I wholeheartedly agree.

   Going back to the subject of the ending, Kelsey has sent in her thoughts
   about the Good ending and its ties to the movie: "the first time Travis
   turns the key, his engine doesn't quite roll over, and he turns it again.
   This suggests to me that (even if his battery was quite dead as leaving his
   lights on would do) perhaps Alessa threw him a bone - which in this case
   would be a nod to the movie, where Rose's car doesn't start until Sharon
   opens her eyes and seems to give her the go-ahead."

   ==================================
   The Tempest and the Artaud Theatre
   ==================================
   Two monsters in this game find their source in The Tempest by William
   Shakespeare, supposedly the last play written solely by himself and the last
   play to be put on in the Artaud Theatre.  Ariel, the "airy spirit", is named
   for the magician Prospero's familiar.  Caliban is the deformed slave of
   Prospero.  The monsters from the play are the concoction of a child that
   snuck into the theatre one day and watched the production.  Some of the
   major themes in the play are justice and the lack thereof, the problem with
   distinguishing men from monsters, and magic.  All of these are easily
   applicable to Silent Hill Ørigins.

   It is very likely that the child who snuck into the theatre is Alessa.  Both
   Travis and Alessa fit into the themes of The Tempest quite well but more so
   for Alessa.  Mike has e-mailed me with a number of reasons:
     "- The note says the child is female.
     "- The actor playing Prospero is brought down with a hellish nosebleed
     during the rehearsal the child witnessed. We know that the child ' Seemed
     to dislike Prospero intensely' and also that Alessa's telekinetic powers
     were something of a bane to those who upset her.
     "- Alessa was terrified of dogs, hence the dog monsters in SH1 (dog
     monsters weren't seen again until SH3, and then only by Alessa in
     different form), and the Caliban costume is a very doggy costume,
     requiring the actor to go on all fours.
     "- Act 1, Scene 2 of the Tempest (which was the act and scene being
     rehearsed when [Tony] got his nosebleed) has Prospero talking to his
     daughter Miranda about his sourcery and telling her that ' I have done
     nothing but in care of thee, Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
     Art ignorant of what thou art'. I don't know about you, but a girl being
     told she is ignorant of her true self sounds very familiar to me."

   I had thought that the theatre was not directly related to Travis, but Sean
   has sent in info to prove me wrong:
   "When you go to examine the corpse after fighting Caliban, there are brief
   flashes of a flashback where you see Travis as a kid within the theatre.
   This seems to suggest that he was there.
   "To support that theory, I refer you to the motel registry detailing Travis
   and Richard's sign in. it states they are there for business/ pleasure. the
   business aspect of it I believe is them visiting Travis's mother in the
   Sanitarium. The pleasure aspect being that they may have gone to see a play
   while in town. Hence Travis's connection to the theatre.
   "Yet even more theories involving their visit to the Sanitarium, is a letter
   Richard had written that you find in the Motel. he refers to Helen as his
   'June Bride' and in the flashback while peeping in on room 500 you see a
   date circled on the calendar that Richard is looking at. combined with june,
   and the year Helen Grady spoke with Dr. Harris, suggests that their reason
   for their visit was it was Richard and Helen's anniversary. the fact that
   Richard had brought her a present seems to reinforce this."

   The two audio clips that play in the theatre are centered on Caliban.  The
   first audio flashback on the stage is from the very beginning of the play.
   Miranda, Prospero's daughter, is pleading for Ferdinand, the son of the one
   who unseated Prospero.  Tony gets too sick to continue the lines, which go
   on to mention Caliban.  The audio that chimes in when you take the stage
   office key is Caliban's speech from Act 3, scene 2.  According to
   SparkNotes, its purpose is to show Caliban's humanity even though he's been
   portrayed as nothing but a monster up until then.

   A note on the theatre itself: the Artaud Theatre is named for Antonin
   Artaud, who came up with the idea of the Theatre of Cruelty.  According to
   Wikipedia, "he meant not exclusively sadism or causing pain [in the idea of
   cruelty], but just as often a violent, physical determination to shatter the
   false reality".  The idea of false realities is HUGE in Silent Hill, so this
   theatre is aptly named.  In fact, the philosophy behind the Theatre of
   Cruelty matches the idea behind Silent Hill (both the town and the games) so
   well.  This goes especially for the third tenet: "cruelty as theatrical
   presentation", which "aimed to hurl the spectator into the centre of the
   action, forcing them to engage with the performance on an instinctive
   level".  As survival/psychological horror gamers, is that not what has
   happened to you?  (Credit goes to an anonymous e-mailer for picking up on
   this reference.)

   ==========
   Twin Peaks
   ==========
   Twin Peaks, directed by David Lynch, was a show that aired between 1990 and
   1991.  The small-town setting and atmosphere could be called Silent Hill-ish
   from what we know of "regular" life in town, but Twin Peaks also has its own
   "Otherwordly" aspects.

   Steve Sheppard has e-mailed me with two references:
   "At the motel stage near the end the decor is modeled a lot after the Great
   Northern Hotel in Twin Peaks.  Mainly the totem poles everywhere.
   "You have to configure the stage to look like an Owl in a cave to fight the
   boss of the theater stage.  Owl Cave held the gateway to the White/Black
   Lodge in Twin Peaks.  The lodge (the red room) was twin peaks version of
   Nowhere."

   Jérôme has also sent one in:
   "Here's another Twin Peaks reference: at the motel, in room 302, you can
   find a suitcase filled with shoes, it could be a reference to the bearded
   one-armed man. A very important character in the TP mythology, he's a friend
   of the red little man ( the little-man-from-another-planet ). In the show,
   Dale Cooper finally manages to corner the one-armed man in a motel room.
   When Cooper interrogates him, he pretends to be a salesman on the road. On
   the bed of the room, the man opens a suitcase filled with shoe samples..."

   =========
   Session 9
   =========
   Thanks to trivia posts on the GameFAQs message boards, it was pointed out
   that Cedar Grove Sanitarium carries some resemblance to Danvers Hospital in
   the movie Session 9.  Session 9, directed by Brad Anderson in 2001, has been
   referenced before in Silent Hill 3.  Its themes of memory repression and
   its freaky hospital setting are enough to make a connection to Silent Hill.
   In the movie, the hospital had what the security guard called a "bat" motif,
   with the main offices in the middle and male and female wings branching off
   from the "bat body".  This set-up is exactly like the one in Cedar Grove.

   Wheelchairs are also prominent in Session 9.  The popular image is a lone
   chair sitting in a hall, calling to whomever looks at it with a troubled
   past and stirring up haunting memories.  Ørigins features a number of
   solitary wheelchairs in the large day rooms.  Travis notes that he's been
   lucky enough to have never had to use one.

   One last reference is in the stairwells.  Session 9 featured a chase of
   sorts up and down the stairwells of the patient wings.  Players of Ørigins
   know that they have to climb up and down their fair share of stairs.

   ================================
   The Rooms of the Riverside Motel
   ================================
   At the Riverside Motel, Travis encounters the truth about what happened to
   his father: he committed suicide.  A stunned, young Travis would block this
   out of his mind, but the Riverside Motel would rather he remember.  Either
   that, or the motel has a history of people checking in to kill themselves.
   A number of suicide clues are found in the names of the suites and the
   scattered photos.

   Huajun Chen sent in some great detective work for a number of these rooms:
   "The ever-so-famous Cleopatra allowed an asp to bite her arm with intention
   of suicide; thus the 'SNAKEBITE PHOTO'.
   "Nero was the last Roman Emperor of the Julio-Claudian dynasty and committed
   suicide by stabbing himself with the help of his secretary; thus the
   'STABBING PHOTO'.
   "Now here's where the ancient history references end. Concerning the Pink
   Moon Suite...I got to say that the creators of Silent Hill are subtle. 'Pink
   Moon' was the title of the last album produced by a famous British singer
   named Nick Drake. He committed suicide from an overdose of amitriptyline, an
   antidepressant; thus the 'OVERDOSE PHOTO'.
   "And of course, the last photo the 'BROKEN HEART PHOTO' is a reference to
   Travis' father. Something that should be noted is that all four photos
   depict, not just methods of killing, but of suicide."

   There's also a suite named "Lucretia", next to the Nero Suite.  Lucretia
   was a Roman noblewoman who was raped by the son of the last king of Rome,
   Sextus Tarquinius.  After telling her family what happened, she killed
   herself.  Paintings depicting her in the act show her with a knife in one
   hand, so she is also a candidate for the "STABBING" photo.

   There's a couple of pictures of Marilyn Monroe in the Rose Suite.  Lori
   wrote in saying, "Marliyn was [Elton John's] 'rose' in his original song
   that he remade for princess Di (Englands rose)."  There are also drugs in
   the room, a nod towards how she died, which may or may not have been a
   suicide.

   The "SHOTGUN" photo seems to be missing a reference in the motel, but if you
   paid attention at the beginning of the game, you would have noticed a
   billboard mentioning the name Hemingway (see the tidbits below for more on
   its relevance).  Hemingway committed suicide with a shotgun blast to the
   head, and the billboard with his name on it is right next to one for the
   Riverside Motel.

   The King Suite is also a subtle suicide hint.  Justin sent in info detailing
   how the King of Hearts in a deck of playing cards is often referred to as
   the "suicide king" because of how he holds his sword: perpendicular to his
   head with everything but the hilt hidden behind his head, making it look
   like he is stabbing himself.  Justin also noted how this fits with the heart
   theme: "This is perfectly in keeping with the heart imagery and symbolism
   prevalent throughout the motel (the swimming pool is shaped like a heart, in
   it you find the jeweled heart which must be broken, Travis’ dad’s death
   photo is labeled 'Broken Heart', and so on)."

   ==============
   Random Tidbits
   ==============
   Just scattered facts and observations:
     The heavy downpour stops as soon as Travis leaves his cab and sees Alessa
     and the fog.

     Alessa calls Travis' name as he walks down the road during the opening
     credits and song.

     Travis passes two billboards on the road.  One is for the Riverside Motel
     and the other is for cigarettes that says "You're never alone with a
     Hemingway."  We'll find out later that Travis does smoke on occasion, but
     what is more relevant is the brand name: Hemingway was a famous American
     author whose works were, according to Wikipedia, characterized by "stoic
     men who exhibit an ideal described as 'grace under pressure'".  The idea
     of stoicism could definitely be applied to Travis.

     Walking along the road in the PS2 version, you can see a truck that's
     broken down/crashed.  This is a clever bit of foreshadowing: Harry will be
     in the exact same situation at the start of the first Silent Hill.  (On
     the PSP, there's a pile of boxes instead of a truck.)

     Travis passes a sign that says "Welcome to Silent Hill".  The sign should
     say something like "You are now leaving Silent Hill" on the back, but it
     only says "Silent Hill".  Why?  Because everyone knows there is no leaving
     Silent Hill!  (This appears to be just for the PSP.)

     The Gillespie house has appeared before in the intro video to the first
     Silent Hill, and its interior was part of the Nowhere level.  This is the
     first time we actually see it in a game and get to enter it for real.

     Check out the picture of Dahlia and Alessa together in front of their home
     on the wall to the right of where you find Alessa on the floor.  (This is
     just for the PSP.)

     If you examine the floor where Alessa was after picking her up, Travis
     will note the Halo of the Sun and say that it makes his head hurt, not
     unlike the effects it has on Heather in Silent Hill 3.

     After dropping through the floor, Travis turns his head to look at all the
     bookshelves around the house.  However, when you interact with one, he
     says he doesn't have time for it now.  (Thanks to Louchavelli for pointing
     this out.)

     In the streets, if you go near a trash can, you can sometimes hear the
     sounds of it moving, toppling over, etc.  If you go near where a road is
     caved in, you can hear the sounds of gravel and buildings collapsing.

     There is a tower of boxes labeled "MSG" piled outside of Konami Burger.
     For those of you who don't know, MSG is monosodium glutamate: a flavor
     enhancer and preservative that has a bad reputation because most people
     either react allergically to it or just don't like it.  Whether it's from
     the oriental eatery next door that changes depending on your version of
     the game or the burger joint is unclear.  Either way, someone's putting a
     lot of unneeded chemicals in their food.  (Credit to Jace for this find.)

     There are posters in the hospital that say "Don't play with matches" and
     have what appears to be a disfigured child on them.

     In the hospital hallway with the restrooms and the alternate exit, you can
     hear a noise that sounds like a muffled telephone ringing or the hum of
     some old office equipment.  To my knowledge, this is not part of the
     background music even though it loops like it, so this is yet another
     ambient/creepy sound effect.  (Credit to Scott for this.)

     There's a notice about a fundraising event in the hospital that Travis
     won't take his eyes off of, yet won't pick up.

     Travis turns his head to stare at all the stretchers in the hospital that
     were used to carry Alessa.

     There are some posters in the hospital that say "Hospitals are good."
     Those who've played Silent Hill 3 know how Alessa feels about hospitals
     (plus, let's not forget the fact that she's wasting away in the basement
     when Travis arrives).  Some of these posters are actually reversed,
     perhaps to show Alessa's feelings.

     When Travis touches the mirror in the hospital for his first trip to the
     Otherworld, his reflection twitches madly.  This is a reference to Adrian
     Lyne's film Jacob's Ladder, one of the first major influences for the
     Silent Hill series.

     The cigarettes in the ash tray in the staff lounge are still smoking.

     There's a mutilated corpse in the Otherworld where the anatomy doll was,
     and Travis wonders what kind of monster would pluck out its eyes, when he
     did just that not two minutes ago.

     After finishing the first hospital level, Travis mutters, "This can't be
     happening!" as the world goes dark around him and he reenters the real
     world.  Amanda has pointed out that this could be a coincidental nod to
     when the sanity meter runs out in Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem,
     which is an awesome game when it comes to freaky scares.  When they go
     crazy, characters in that title usually scream out, freak out, and then
     snap back to the real world.

     The actual name of the butcher shop is "The Family Butcher".

     Travis shows genuine sympathy for all the monsters killed by the Butcher.

     When your health is in the red, Travis' breathing becomes raspy and he
     clutches his side.

     You can hear muffled speech from inside the locked doctor's office in the
     sanitarium.

     Amanda has pointed out an interesting painting that can be seen in
     several places, the first being in the west solarium.  The painting is of
     a man with a huge grin on his face; it almost looks like a real photo
     turned into a graphic for the game.  It can be seen again in the Public
     Records Office and nowhere else that we've noticed, so this isn't a case
     of recurring graphic-itis.  Thomas e-mailed me to say that the picture
     reminded him of Ronald Reagan:
     "the painting/photo in question is very reminiscent of Ronald Reagan, who
     was (along with being a former president of the United States) widely
     criticized for cutting funding to social programs that helped the mentally
     ill, resulting in the closing of many mental health facilities and the
     vagrancy of many mentally-ill people (this was all in the mid-late
     1980s)."
     To compare, here's some pictures he found: http://img.photobucket.com/
     albums/v460/sophialee/Silent%20Hill%20Origins/reagan.jpg  After looking at
     pictures of Reagan and then the painting, you can tell that they're not
     identical except in the way the two men are dressed and the eerie smile.
     However, the connection to insane asylums was too good to pass up.

     On the first floor of the female wing, there are cabinets along the hall
     that Travis stares at but can't find anything interesting about.

     A lot of the background ambience that plays when wandering around the
     corridors of the real world sanitarium sounds like music from Silent
     Hill 2.

     On the iron lung in the TB Ward you can read its directions for operation,
     and someone scribbled in a fourth one: "Have fun!"  (Sent in by David.)

     There are plenty of medical posters on the walls of the sanitarium, but
     one of the more prominent ones reads "PTSD: Fact or fiction?"  PTSD is
     posttraumatic stress disorder.  According to Wikipedia, it "is an anxiety
     disorder that can develop after exposure to a terrifying event or ordeal
     in which grave physical harm occurred or was threatened.  It is a severe
     and ongoing emotional reaction to an extreme psychological trauma.  This
     stressor may involve someone's actual death or a threat to the patient's
     or someone else's life, serious physical injury, or threat to physical
     and/or psychological integrity, to a degree that usual psychological
     defenses are incapable of coping."  If you need help linking this to
     Travis, you haven't been paying attention!

     Other posters in the sanitarium read "Hypno-Therapy: Unlock Your
     Potential!" and "Cognytolyn... ...the solution to a Global problem".  (For
     the record, "cognytolyn" is not a real word.)

     Kris has noted that Travis stares at a shelf in the sanitarium laundry
     room even after picking up all the items.  Travis apparently has a staring
     problem.

     The shotgun in the sanitarium is held up on the wall in a similar fashion
     to a certain shotgun in the first Resident Evil game.  Trap ceiling not
     included.  The shotgun is a required pick up because Travis is holding it
     in the cinematic before the final boss fight.

     Jaff has noted what looks like a smiley face visible in one of the
     sanitarium mirrors.  For a picture, go here: http://img.photobucket.com/
     albums/v460/sophialee/Silent%20Hill%20Origins/smile.jpg

     Jaff has also found pages of Konami's "Lost Memories" scattered around the
     sanitarium.  For an example, look here (found in the room with the Doll/
     Pill Puzzle): http://img.photobucket.com/albums/v460/sophialee/
     Silent%20Hill%20Origins/lm.jpg  The text is insanely small; if you want to
     read the real deal, go here: http://www.translatedmemories.com/

     The Jocasta artifact in the sanitarium is named for Oedipus' mother, the
     queen of Thebes, in the story bearing his name (Oedipus the King).  When
     an oracle tells her husband, Laius, that his own son will kill him,
     Jocasta orders the baby to be left for dead in a forest after injuring his
     foot so he cannot make it back.

     Iris has written in with a find in the sanitarium:
     "In the sanitorium, after the pill puzzle to receive dr. Harris' key,
     Travis has to go to the basement again. There, on the wall to his right on
     the way between the door he came from and the one to take him trough the
     diagonal hallway, I have seen something that looked like a child's drawing
     of a woman and two children."
     There are many ways to interpret the drawings found around the sanitarium;
     this one makes me think of Alessa: the woman being Dahlia and the two
     girls as Alessa and Cheryl.  However, this hasn't technically happened yet
     so it could just be some foreshadowing.  The drawings scattered around can
     also be interpreted as a link between Alessa and Travis.  They both shared
     a childhood penchant for drawing, and you can see Travis' scribbles later
     in the sanitarium.

     The theatre ticket we pick up in the sanitarium has a city name on it:
     Jaffrey, N. H.  This is a real town in the state of New Hampshire, and
     Jim has dug up some history that may serve as a connection:
     "The town is where a famous, unsolved mystery of Dr. William Dean took
     place in 1918.  Apparently, it spread paranoia about the town and is one
     of it's darkest moments."
     Details of the Dean murder can be found here:
     http://pages.cthome.net/rspiess/HTML/DeanMurder.htm
     "I wonder if the fact that his being bound and his head covered with a
     burlap bag is also part of the reason [the town is referenced].  I'm sure
     there's more to it than that but Strait-jackets come to mind."

     Other plays advertised in the Artaud Theatre include Julius Caesar and
     Romeo and Juliet.  Harrison has also spotted posters for Hamlet in the
     stairwell just off the lobby.

     In the theatre, if you enter the mirror on the stage without setting the
     scene, Travis will find nothing but will intently stare at the spotlights
     to his left, even after noting that they don't work.

     If you examine the shovel melee weapon, Travis will note that it is "good
     for maiming bodies and then for burying them".

     The cardboard cut-out in Andy's Books holding the assault rifle looks an
     awful lot like Travis.  In fact, Goku the Silver Sayain has correctly
     pointed out that Travis and the cut-out are identical when he is wearing
     the Sharpshooter outfit.

     Travis only laughs at his own jokes.

     The till receipt in the general store contains a reference to a line from
     George Orwell's novel 1984; the exact line: "Here comes a candle to light
     you to bed, here comes a chopper to chop off your head!"  (Thanks to
     Huajun Chen for this tidbit.)  An anonymous e-mailer sent in even more
     info on the original nursery rhyme, titled "Oranges and Lemons":
     "Speculation about the versions of 'Oranges and Lemons' which *do* contain
     those lines include the notion that the ringing of the church bells in
     London and its environs were to mark a public execution in London."
     Keeping in mind the nature of the Butcher, these lines have even more
     meaning.

     On the second floor of the 300-block of Riverside Motel rooms, you can
     hear someone running.

     Jérôme has a possible explanation for the wedding party in the motel:
     "About the suit and the wedding dress in room 316, it could be a reference
     to Michael Cimino's The Deer Hunter. I've seen it 6 years ago, so I don't
     remember it accurately but I think something went wrong with the marriage.
     I can't remember if the groom survived at the end of the movie."

     In Room 309, Travis takes a health drink straight out of a toilet.  Ever
     since Silent Hill 2, there has been a long-running line of "reaching into
     toilet" gags.  Travis is apparently the first man in Silent Hill brave
     enough to reach into a toilet for something, though the one in the motel
     wasn't full of gross blockage like the one in the Blue Creek Apartments.

     Travis breathes really heavily every time he looks in a room through a
     peephole, except when looking through peepholes in the Otherworld.

     Taxidermy makes Travis feel bad.

     In the game room at the motel, Travis says he only smokes when he's happy.
     Examining one of the cigarette machines will make him say that he doesn't
     want a smoke right now.

     The pinball machine with the token on it, fittingly enough, has a big rig
     theme to it.  In the PS2 version, it also features a horizontally flipped
     version of this picture of Farrah Fawcett: http://img.photobucket.com/
     albums/v460/sophialee/Silent%20Hill%20Origins/farrahfawcett.jpg.  (Credit
     to eagle eye Brian for this find.)

     Luke has pointed out that the third pinball machine on the right features
     the band KISS.  (This is also just for the PS2.)

     The lights are on and flickering in room 213 at the motel, but the door is
     closed.  Bronson has e-mailed a possible reference concerning this room,
     saying 213 was the number of Jeffrey Dahmer's apartment.  Dahmer was a
     serial killer who murdered 17 men and boys and apparently stored corpses
     and other unspeakable things in his room, which is not unlike all the
     hanging corpses you can see in the Otherworld motel.

     Travis describes the snake key chain on the Cleopatra key as "cute".  This
     is probably the only time outside of Silent Hill 3 that anyone has called
     something cute.

     Leonardo da Vinci's famous "Vitruvian Man" drawing can be found on the
     walls of some of the motel rooms.

     Dzulk9 has pointed out that, if you examine the Redeemer in the PS2
     version, you can clearly see the image of a woman on the handle.

     Before you jump down through the hole in the Cleopatra Suite, you should
     be able to hear a woman laughing, among other sounds.  (You know, just in
     case you were unsure about what Lisa and Kaufmann were doing downstairs.)
     Sammy has also noted that those sounds can be heard through the suite's
     peephole, underneath Travis' breathing.

     In the Green Lion, you can see a picture of what could be the Almighty Dog
     (from the UFO ending) by the hole in the wall.  (Thanks to alys D for
     pointing this out.)

     Tommy has pointed out an interesting oversight/tidbit: Travis left the
     lights on in his truck, but it starts up with no problems when he goes to
     leave (well, it actually needs to turn over once or twice; see the movie
     references for a possible explanation for that).  This could either be a
     mistake on the developers' part or a hint for those of you looking to
     analyze time in the Otherworld in relation to time in the real world.
     Maybe his lights weren't on that long after all?

     Paul has pointed out that the last name Grady has a history of crazy
     attached to it, specifically in a loose reference to The Shining by
     Stephen King.  The caretaker who murdered his family was named Delbert
     Grady, and his spirit haunts the Overlook Hotel.  Though Travis' father
     was more suicidal than homicidal, his spirit also haunts a hotel-like
     establishment.

     As for the first name of "Travis", absolutturka noted some similarities to
     the Travis in the movie Taxi Driver.  Both character exhibit violence and
     have trouble sleeping.  hustonwatts also added more to this topic: "I
     think this is accurate because both Travis's enjoy driving, and have a
     interest in guns, I came up with this b/c S.H.O. has more guns than any of
     the others, and Taxi Driver's climax involves gun violence."

     Scott has sent in an interesting note about the Good ending:
     "In the final cutscene of the game, we see that the trucking company
     Travis works for is based in Owl Creek, Alabama.  Now, I might be reading
     a bit too much into it, but this could be a reference to Ambrose Bierce's
     short story, 'An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.'"
     A few more facts about what we can see on the truck: Travis is hauling for
     Ambrose Trucking & Haulage, and the date written on the side of the
     trailer is 1891.  Ambrose is, of course, from the author's name, and the
     date is when the story was first anthologized.  "An Occurrence at Owl
     Creek Bridge" is about a false reality that a man conjures up in order to
     escape his death.  He is slated to be executed by hanging and believes he
     gets away by a twist of fate but, in fact, is killed on the spot, and
     readers realize his elaborate escape was all in his head.  To me, this
     instantly brings up memories of the first Silent Hill's Bad ending, but it
     also works for Ørigins (see the note above about the truck's headlights).

     A possible game glitch has been sent in by Javier Munoz:
     "An interesting thing I've discovered while playing is that if you equip a
     melee weapon the very second the last one breaks during a fight, both you
     and the monster(s) you're fighting will move in slow motion. This is an
     awesome effect for the rest of the fight because you can see in detail how
     a monster takes a hit from Travis, how he takes a hit, and how a finishing
     blow looks like. Other than that, it's freaking annoying because Travis
     stays in slow mo after he kills the monster(s). There are two ways I've
     found to get out of slow mo mode: one is to leave the area (Travis will
     move at normal speed) and the other is to break another weapon during the
     same fight."

     The Sprinter outfit sports a stylized "TG" logo on the back.  (Submitted
     by Goku the Silver Sayain.)


===============================================================================
Miscellaneous                                                             [mis]

If anything in this document is inaccurate, you have comments and critiques or
you have a question about the game, feel free to let me know at SophiaLee04 at
yahoo dot com.  Be sure to mention "Silent Hill Ørigins" in the title.

   =============
   Credit/Thanks
   =============
   Thanks all around to:
     Konami for an excellent series and Climax for a wonderful game.

     ninjarza over at GameSpot for the accolades list.  I could not for the
     life of me find the criteria for each accolade until Google led me to your
     post.

     Konami's official Silent Hill Ørigins site for the names of most of the
     monsters, and BradyGAMES' official guide for the monster names Konami
     didn't supply.  (Although I did make up the names for the Richard and
     Helen bosses.)

     evilunleashed.com for the interview with the game's producers.

     Steve Sheppard and Jérôme for the Twin Peaks trivia.

     Michael Preston for a spelling correction.

     AfroMike (GummySnakes) for alternate Caliban strategy and help with the
     tips for the accolades, Mike D. and James for help with the Fireman
     accolade specifically, and Etienne for a note on the Stalker accolade.

     lov kai for pointing out that stomps count as fist kills.

     sam hill for a trivia suggestion.

     everyone that e-mailed me with Roslyn info.

     Bronson for room 213/Dahmer info.

     SparkNotes for information on The Tempest.  In all my English courses,
     I've never had to read that one.  I love Silent Hill, but I hate
     Shakespeare more, so I used SparkNotes to get the jist of the plot and
     the major themes so I wouldn't have to read it.

     Mike for more theories on how The Tempest fits into Silent Hill, and Sean
     for relating Travis to the theatre.

     Mózsi Kiss for tremendous help with my Sprinter Run.

     the trivia posts at GameFAQs for the hints at Session 9 references.

     Aoi for the Silent Hill 4 wheelchair note.

     anonymous e-mailers for all-around good info.

     Huajun Chen for the 1984 trivia bit as well as detailed info on the
     special rooms in Riverside Motel.

     Jess for the info on Dean Koontz and Silent Hill Genesis (http://genesis.
     silenthillfever.com/) for other author references.

     Jason for digging up the names Cielo, Flauros, and Samael in relation to
     SMT:DDS, and Thomas for more info on Cielo.

     Jake for relating Borden street to Lizzie Borden.

     Jaff for screen caps and extras found in the Sanitarium.

     alys D for showing me the dog in the antique shop.

     Stevo99801 for help with figuring the game's item system.

     Louchavelli for noting the bookcases in the Gillespie house.

     Kris for pointing out another of Travis' staring problems.

     Tommy for a trivia bit about the truck's lights.

     Paul for linking the name Grady to The Shining, and absolutturka and
     hustonwatts for linking the name Travis to Taxi Driver and mental illness.

     Lori for the note about Marilyn Monroe.

     Brian and Luke for more pinball trivia, and again to Luke for the bit
     about fighting Richard.

     Scott for the Owl Creek information and noting the muffled phone(?) in the
     hospital.

     Amanda for the Eternal Darkness line.

     Jace for uncovering the truth about Konami Burger's flavorful menu.

     Amanda for the lead on the creepy painting in the sanitarium, and Thomas
     for a possible reference concerning said painting.

     Scott, Seta, and Kelsey for Silent Hill movie refs.

     Aya for e-mailing strategies for the Butcher and Memory of Richard fights.

     Harrison for spotting another Shakespeare poster.

     Iris for the kind e-mails and the bit about the drawings in the
     sanitarium.

     Carla for a definite Flauros puzzle solution.

     Sammy for an extra tidbit on the goings on in the Cleopatra Suite.

     Bloody Miss B for so much helpful info and insight into White Claudia.

     Dzulk9 for pointing out a neat tidbit about the Redeemer on the PS2.

     David for a bit about the iron lung in the sanitarium.

     Tee Kay Vin and Kristoffer for pointing out an item I missed.

     Jim for info on Jaffrey.

     Javier Munoz for a game glitch.

     Goku the Silver Sayain for trivia related to Travis' costumes.

     Justin for sending in info about the King Suite.

     my friend Lara for taking me out to eat at 1 in the morning so I'd have
     enough energy to keep writing.

     GameFAQs writer Conquerer for showing us all what a Silent Hill guide
     should be like.  The time and effort put into this guide's trivia section
     and puzzle solutions was inspired by his work.

     imdb.com for help with trivia that involved a movie.  I love that site.

     Wikipedia for being an all-in-one source.  Nothing beats it.

     all the gaming sites that host my guides.

   ===============
   Version History
   ===============
   1.51 - 02/20/11: Added another suicide hint found in the motel.  So, so
                    sorry to the submitter for taking so long to add it.

   1.50 - 06/07/10: Added info on a "slow mo" game glitch at the very end of
                    the random trivia section.

   1.49 - 01/12/10: Some formatting, also added a bit relating Travis to the
                    theatre under the random trivia section.

   1.48 - 07/12/09: Got an update on the Jaffrey, NH connection and added two
                    new hosts.

   1.47 - 02/22/09: Amended the Taxi Driver reference.

   1.46 - 01/05/09: Added one last trivia bit about the iron lung I missed: the
                    "Have fun" message, to be precise, as well as an update on
                    the Stalker accolade someone pointed out to me.

   1.45 - 08/18/08: Added a reminder to PS2 players about their lack of
                    brightness controls; if you can't see something referenced
                    in the FAQ and you're playing the PS2, keep mashing X and
                    you should find it eventually; I also added a definitive
                    solution to the Flauros puzzle e-mailed in to me.

   1.44 - 06/21/08: Along with some trivia, I've gotten some boss fight ad-ons
                    for the Butcher and Richard.

   1.43 - 04/29/08: You got it, more trivia, but not much more; from now on,
                    we'll just assume that whenever this document is updated,
                    it is trivia related.

   1.42 - 04/21/08: More trivia, all in the tidbits section.

   1.41 - 04/06/08: The trivia section is now up-to-date with all the things
                    people sent in; sorry it took so long.

   1.40 - 03/11/08: I have the PS2 port and am happy to say that it plays the
                    same as the PSP version so far (although I prefer the
                    latter); I've been scouting for new trivia as well as
                    looking into some that people have sent in; most of the new
                    stuff is in the tidbits section.

   1.39 - 02/20/08: Shuffled some trivia around and added a note about the item
                    system before the walkthrough.

   1.38 - 02/03/08: Added more hints for getting the Fireman accolade.

   1.37 - 01/31/08: Two new trivia finds added under the tidbits; just look for
                    the long URLs to find them.

   1.36 - 01/21/08: Added a section under trivia concerning the motel and its
                    suicide-themed rooms and made an addition to the Brawler
                    accolade's tips.

   1.35 - 01/16/08: More trivia added, mostly under tidbits and the first
                    Silent Hill.

   1.34 - 01/06/08: Went through and did proofreading and added trivia; there
                    isn't much more I can add that has to do with the actual
                    game.

   1.33 - 12/16/07: Thanks to a friendly e-mail, I have revamped the Sprinter
                    Run; where I had oversimplified, not been clear, and been
                    downright wrong has now [hopefully] been fixed; more trivia
                    has also been added.

   1.32 - 11/25/07: Added tips on how to achieve all the accolades as well as
                    more trivia bits here and there.

   1.31 - 11/18/07: Sprinter Run added, but I have yet to test it so I
                    apologize if anything's missing; I also fine-tuned the
                    walkthrough to include more items and more info on bosses;
                    the trivia section is growing bigger.

   1.20 - 11/13/07: Added the monsters and trivia section; the latter still
                    needs lots of work; I'm also considering making a
                    condensed, bulleted walkthrough for the Sprinter run.

   1.00 - 11/11/07: Walkthrough finished and submitted at 6 in the morning; all
                    for the love of the game, baby.

   0.00 - 11/09/07: Walkthrough started with a case of Coca-Cola by the
                    keyboard.

   =====
   Hosts
   =====
   Below are the sites that have permission to host this guide.  They should
   all have the same version, but it's not a guarantee.  Check the sites at the
   top of the list first for the latest.

      GameFAQs, http://www.gamefaqs.com
      Neoseeker, http://www.neoseeker.com
      HonestGamers, http://www.honestgamers.com
      Super Cheats, http://www.supercheats.com
      Cheat Code Central, http://www.cheatcc.com
      Game Revolution, http://www.gamerevolution.com
      GamesRadar, http://www.gamesradar.com
      Gamer Database, http://www.gamerdatabase.com
      The Hill Is Silent, http://www.freewebs.com/thehillissilent
      http://thenumber35.webs.com/
      MyPSP, http://mypsp.com.au/

   ==========
   Legal Info
   ==========
   This walkthrough was typed up solely for personal and private uses.  Please
   do not redistribute, alter, or do anything remotely suspicious or illegal
   with it.  Ask if you're not sure.  Copyright infringement is not cool; it's
   the kind of thing people are called to Silent Hill for.

   Copyright (©) 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 Georgi Samaras

